The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

136 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 23
It was eight o’clock when we landed; we walked for a short time
on the shore, enjoying the transitory light, and then retired to the
inn and contemplated the lovely scene of waters, woods, and
mountains, obscured in darkness, yet still displaying their black
outlines.
The wind, which had fallen in the south, now rose with great
violence in the west. The moon had reached her summit in the
heavens and was beginning to descend; the clouds swept across it
swifter than the flight of the vulture and dimmed her rays, while
the lake reflected the scene of the busy heavens, rendered still
busier by the restless waves that were beginning to rise. Suddenly a
heavy storm of rain descended.
I had been calm during the day, but so soon as night obscured
the shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind. I was
anxious and watchful, while my right hand grasped a pistol which
was hidden in my bosom; every sound terrified me, but I resolved
that I would sell my life dearly and not shrink from the conflict
until my own life or that of my adversary was extinguished.
Elizabeth observed my agitation for some time in timid and
fearful silence, but there was something in my glance which
communicated terror to her, and trembling, she asked, “What is it
that agitates you, my dear Victor? What is it you fear?”
“Oh! Peace, peace, my love,” replied I; “this night, and all will
be safe; but this night is dreadful, very dreadful.”
I passed an hour in this state of mind, when suddenly I reflected
how fearful the combat which I momentarily expected would be to
my wife, and I earnestly entreated her to retire, resolving not to
join her until I had obtained some knowledge as to the situation of
my enemy.
She left me, and I continued some time walking up and down
the passages of the house and inspecting every corner that might
afford a retreat to my adversary. But I discovered no trace of him
and was beginning to conjecture that some fortunate chance had
intervened to prevent the execution of his menaces when suddenly
I heard a shrill and dreadful scream. It came from the room into
which Elizabeth had retired. As I heard it, the whole truth rushed
into my mind, my arms dropped, the motion of every muscle and
fibre was suspended; I could feel the blood trickling in my veins
and tingling in the extremities of my limbs. This state lasted but for
an instant; the scream was repeated, and I rushed into the room.
Great God! Why did I not then expire! Why am I here to relate
the destruction of the best hope and the purest creature on earth?
She was there, lifeless and inanimate, thrown across the bed, her
head hanging down and her pale and distorted features half
covered by her hair. Everywhere I turn I see the same figure—her
bloodless arms and relaxed form flung by the murderer on its

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

