The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

113 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

that the fiend followed me and might expedite my remissness by
murdering my companion. When these thoughts possessed me, I
would not quit Henry for a moment, but followed him as his
shadow, to protect him from the fancied rage of his destroyer. I felt
as if I had committed some great crime, the consciousness of
which haunted me. I was guiltless, but I had indeed drawn down a
horrible curse upon my head, as mortal as that of crime.
I visited Edinburgh with languid eyes and mind; and yet that city
might have interested the most unfortunate being. Clerval did not
like it so well as Oxford, for the antiquity of the latter city was
more pleasing to him. But the beauty and regularity of the new
town of Edinburgh, its romantic castle and its environs, the most
delightful in the world, Arthur’s Seat, St. Bernard’s Well, and the
Pentland Hills, compensated him for the change and filled him
with cheerfulness and admiration. But I was impatient to arrive at
the termination of my journey.
We left Edinburgh in a week, passing through Coupar, St.
Andrew’s, and along the banks of the Tay, to Perth, where our
friend expected us. But I was in no mood to laugh and talk with
strangers or enter into their feelings or plans with the good humour
expected from a guest; and accordingly I told Clerval that I wished
to make the tour of Scotland alone. “Do you,” said I, “enjoy
yourself, and let this be our rendezvous. I may be absent a month
or two; but do not interfere with my motions, I entreat you; leave
me to peace and solitude for a short time; and when I return, I hope
it will be with a lighter heart, more congenial to your own temper.”
Henry wished to dissuade me, but seeing me bent on this plan,
ceased to remonstrate. He entreated me to write often. “I had rather
be with you,” he said, “in your solitary rambles, than with these
Scotch people, whom I do not know; hasten, then, my dear friend,
to return, that I may again feel myself somewhat at home, which I
cannot do in your absence.”
Having parted from my friend, I determined to visit some
remote spot of Scotland and finish my work in solitude. I did not
doubt but that the monster followed me and would discover
himself to me when I should have finished, that he might receive
his companion.
With this resolution I traversed the northern highlands and fixed
on one of the remotest of the Orkneys as the scene of my labours.
It was a place fitted for such a work, being hardly more than a rock
whose high sides were continually beaten upon by the waves. The
soil was barren, scarcely affording pasture for a few miserable
cows, and oatmeal for its inhabitants, which consisted of five
persons, whose gaunt and scraggy limbs gave tokens of their
miserable fare. Vegetables and bread, when they indulged in such
luxuries, and even fresh water, was to be procured from the
mainland, which was about five miles distant.
On the whole island there were but three miserable huts, and one
of these was vacant when I arrived. This I hired. It contained but
two rooms, and these exhibited all the squalidness of the most

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

