The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

159 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of
this work.
1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project
Gutenberg™ License terms from this work, or any files
containing a part of this work or any other work associated
with Project Gutenberg™.
1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute
this electronic work, or any part of this electronic work,
without prominently displaying the sentence set forth in
paragraph 1.E.1 with active links or immediate access to the
full terms of the Project Gutenberg™ License.
1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any
binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary
form, including any word processing or hypertext form.
However, if you provide access to or distribute copies of a
Project Gutenberg™ work in a format other than “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or
expense to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a
copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon request, of the
work in its original “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any
alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg™
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™
works unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or
providing access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works provided that:
• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive
from the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using
the method you already use to calculate your applicable
taxes. The fee is owed to the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has agreed to donate
royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be
paid within 60 days following each date on which you
prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
returns. Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such
and sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation at the address specified in Section 4,
“Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation.”
• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

