The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

150 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

you, then, so easily turned from your design? Did you not call this
a glorious expedition? “And wherefore was it glorious? Not
because the way was smooth and placid as a southern sea, but
because it was full of dangers and terror, because at every new
incident your fortitude was to be called forth and your courage
exhibited, because danger and death surrounded it, and these you
were to brave and overcome. For this was it a glorious, for this was
it an honourable undertaking. You were hereafter to be hailed as
the benefactors of your species, your names adored as belonging to
brave men who encountered death for honour and the benefit of
mankind. And now, behold, with the first imagination of danger,
or, if you will, the first mighty and terrific trial of your courage,
you shrink away and are content to be handed down as men who
had not strength enough to endure cold and peril; and so, poor
souls, they were chilly and returned to their warm firesides. Why,
that requires not this preparation; ye need not have come thus far
and dragged your captain to the shame of a defeat merely to prove
yourselves cowards. Oh! Be men, or be more than men. Be steady
to your purposes and firm as a rock. This ice is not made of such
stuff as your hearts may be; it is mutable and cannot withstand you
if you say that it shall not. Do not return to your families with the
stigma of disgrace marked on your brows. Return as heroes who
have fought and conquered and who know not what it is to turn
their backs on the foe.”
He spoke this with a voice so modulated to the different feelings
expressed in his speech, with an eye so full of lofty design and
heroism, that can you wonder that these men were moved? They
looked at one another and were unable to reply. I spoke; I told
them to retire and consider of what had been said, that I would not
lead them farther north if they strenuously desired the contrary, but
that I hoped that, with reflection, their courage would return.
They retired and I turned towards my friend, but he was sunk in
languor and almost deprived of life.
How all this will terminate, I know not, but I had rather die than
return shamefully, my purpose unfulfilled. Yet I fear such will be
my fate; the men, unsupported by ideas of glory and honour, can
never willingly continue to endure their present hardships.
September 7th.
The die is cast; I have consented to return if we are not
destroyed. Thus are my hopes blasted by cowardice and indecision;
I come back ignorant and disappointed. It requires more
philosophy than I possess to bear this injustice with patience.
September 12th.
It is past; I am returning to England. I have lost my hopes of
utility and glory; I have lost my friend. But I will endeavour to
detail these bitter circumstances to you, my dear sister; and while I
am wafted towards England and towards you, I will not despond.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

