The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

104 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 18
Day after day, week after week, passed away on my return to
Geneva; and I could not collect the courage to recommence my
work. I feared the vengeance of the disappointed fiend, yet I was
unable to overcome my repugnance to the task which was enjoined
me. I found that I could not compose a female without again
devoting several months to profound study and laborious
disquisition. I had heard of some discoveries having been made by
an English philosopher, the knowledge of which was material to
my success, and I sometimes thought of obtaining my father’s
consent to visit England for this purpose; but I clung to every
pretence of delay and shrank from taking the first step in an
undertaking whose immediate necessity began to appear less
absolute to me. A change indeed had taken place in me; my health,
which had hitherto declined, was now much restored; and my
spirits, when unchecked by the memory of my unhappy promise,
rose proportionably. My father saw this change with pleasure, and
he turned his thoughts towards the best method of eradicating the
remains of my melancholy, which every now and then would
return by fits, and with a devouring blackness overcast the
approaching sunshine. At these moments I took refuge in the most
perfect solitude. I passed whole days on the lake alone in a little
boat, watching the clouds and listening to the rippling of the
waves, silent and listless. But the fresh air and bright sun seldom
failed to restore me to some degree of composure, and on my
return I met the salutations of my friends with a readier smile and a
more cheerful heart.
It was after my return from one of these rambles that my father,
calling me aside, thus addressed me,
“I am happy to remark, my dear son, that you have resumed
your former pleasures and seem to be returning to yourself. And
yet you are still unhappy and still avoid our society. For some time
I was lost in conjecture as to the cause of this, but yesterday an
idea struck me, and if it is well founded, I conjure you to avow it.
Reserve on such a point would be not only useless, but draw down
treble misery on us all.”
I trembled violently at his exordium, and my father continued—
“I confess, my son, that I have always looked forward to your
marriage with our dear Elizabeth as the tie of our domestic comfort
and the stay of my declining years. You were attached to each
other from your earliest infancy; you studied together, and
appeared, in dispositions and tastes, entirely suited to one another.
But so blind is the experience of man that what I conceived to be
the best assistants to my plan may have entirely destroyed it. You,
perhaps, regard her as your sister, without any wish that she might
become your wife. Nay, you may have met with another whom you
may love; and considering yourself as bound in honour to
Elizabeth, this struggle may occasion the poignant misery which

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

