The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

119 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

I now felt as if a film had been taken from before my eyes and that
I for the first time saw clearly. The idea of renewing my labours
did not for one instant occur to me; the threat I had heard weighed
on my thoughts, but I did not reflect that a voluntary act of mine
could avert it. I had resolved in my own mind that to create another
like the fiend I had first made would be an act of the basest and
most atrocious selfishness, and I banished from my mind every
thought that could lead to a different conclusion.
Between two and three in the morning the moon rose; and I
then, putting my basket aboard a little skiff, sailed out about four
miles from the shore. The scene was perfectly solitary; a few boats
were returning towards land, but I sailed away from them. I felt as
if I was about the commission of a dreadful crime and avoided
with shuddering anxiety any encounter with my fellow creatures.
At one time the moon, which had before been clear, was suddenly
overspread by a thick cloud, and I took advantage of the moment
of darkness and cast my basket into the sea; I listened to the
gurgling sound as it sank and then sailed away from the spot. The
sky became clouded, but the air was pure, although chilled by the
northeast breeze that was then rising. But it refreshed me and filled
me with such agreeable sensations that I resolved to prolong my
stay on the water, and fixing the rudder in a direct position,
stretched myself at the bottom of the boat. Clouds hid the moon,
everything was obscure, and I heard only the sound of the boat as
its keel cut through the waves; the murmur lulled me, and in a
short time I slept soundly.
I do not know how long I remained in this situation, but when I
awoke I found that the sun had already mounted considerably. The
wind was high, and the waves continually threatened the safety of
my little skiff. I found that the wind was northeast and must have
driven me far from the coast from which I had embarked. I
endeavoured to change my course but quickly found that if I again
made the attempt the boat would be instantly filled with water.
Thus situated, my only resource was to drive before the wind. I
confess that I felt a few sensations of terror. I had no compass with
me and was so slenderly acquainted with the geography of this part
of the world that the sun was of little benefit to me. I might be
driven into the wide Atlantic and feel all the tortures of starvation
or be swallowed up in the immeasurable waters that roared and
buffeted around me. I had already been out many hours and felt the
torment of a burning thirst, a prelude to my other sufferings. I
looked on the heavens, which were covered by clouds that flew
before the wind, only to be replaced by others; I looked upon the
sea; it was to be my grave. “Fiend,” I exclaimed, “your task is
already fulfilled!” I thought of Elizabeth, of my father, and of
Clerval—all left behind, on whom the monster might satisfy his
sanguinary and merciless passions. This idea plunged me into a
reverie so despairing and frightful that even now, when the scene is
on the point of closing before me for ever, I shudder to reflect on
it.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

