The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

120 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Some hours passed thus; but by degrees, as the sun declined
towards the horizon, the wind died away into a gentle breeze and
the sea became free from breakers. But these gave place to a heavy
swell; I felt sick and hardly able to hold the rudder, when suddenly
I saw a line of high land towards the south.
Almost spent, as I was, by fatigue and the dreadful suspense I
endured for several hours, this sudden certainty of life rushed like a
flood of warm joy to my heart, and tears gushed from my eyes.
How mutable are our feelings, and how strange is that clinging
love we have of life even in the excess of misery! I constructed
another sail with a part of my dress and eagerly steered my course
towards the land. It had a wild and rocky appearance, but as I
approached nearer I easily perceived the traces of cultivation. I saw
vessels near the shore and found myself suddenly transported back
to the neighbourhood of civilised man. I carefully traced the
windings of the land and hailed a steeple which I at length saw
issuing from behind a small promontory. As I was in a state of
extreme debility, I resolved to sail directly towards the town, as a
place where I could most easily procure nourishment. Fortunately I
had money with me. As I turned the promontory I perceived a
small neat town and a good harbour, which I entered, my heart
bounding with joy at my unexpected escape.
As I was occupied in fixing the boat and arranging the sails,
several people crowded towards the spot. They seemed much
surprised at my appearance, but instead of offering me any
assistance, whispered together with gestures that at any other time
might have produced in me a slight sensation of alarm. As it was, I
merely remarked that they spoke English, and I therefore addressed
them in that language. “My good friends,” said I, “will you be so
kind as to tell me the name of this town and inform me where I
am?”
“You will know that soon enough,” replied a man with a hoarse
voice. “Maybe you are come to a place that will not prove much to
your taste, but you will not be consulted as to your quarters, I
promise you.”
I was exceedingly surprised on receiving so rude an answer from
a stranger, and I was also disconcerted on perceiving the frowning
and angry countenances of his companions. “Why do you answer
me so roughly?” I replied. “Surely it is not the custom of
Englishmen to receive strangers so inhospitably.”
“I do not know,” said the man, “what the custom of the English
may be, but it is the custom of the Irish to hate villains.”
While this strange dialogue continued, I perceived the crowd
rapidly increase. Their faces expressed a mixture of curiosity and
anger, which annoyed and in some degree alarmed me. I inquired
the way to the inn, but no one replied. I then moved forward, and a
murmuring sound arose from the crowd as they followed and
surrounded me, when an ill-looking man approaching tapped me
on the shoulder and said, “Come, sir, you must follow me to Mr.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

