The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

157 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

phrase “Project Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the
terms of the Full Project Gutenberg™ License available with
this file or online at www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing
Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand,
agree to and accept all the terms of this license and
intellectual property (trademark/copyright) agreement. If you
do not agree to abide by all the terms of this agreement, you
must cease using and return or destroy all copies of Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works in your possession. If you paid
a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be
bound by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a
refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as
set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may
only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic
work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this
agreement. There are a few things that you can do with most
Project Gutenberg™ electronic works even without
complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do
with Project Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the
terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to
Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. See paragraph 1.E
below.
1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
(“the Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright
in the collection of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works.
Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the
public domain in the United States. If an individual work is
unprotected by copyright law in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to
prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as
long as all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of
course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg™ mission of promoting free access to electronic
works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™ works in
compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can
easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping
this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg™ License when you share it without charge with
others.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

