The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

132 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

eaten, and the angel’s arm bared to drive me from all hope. Yet I
would die to make her happy. If the monster executed his threat,
death was inevitable; yet, again, I considered whether my marriage
would hasten my fate. My destruction might indeed arrive a few
months sooner, but if my torturer should suspect that I postponed
it, influenced by his menaces, he would surely find other and
perhaps more dreadful means of revenge. He had vowed to be with
me on my wedding-night, yet he did not consider that threat as
binding him to peace in the meantime, for as if to show me that he
was not yet satiated with blood, he had murdered Clerval
immediately after the enunciation of his threats. I resolved,
therefore, that if my immediate union with my cousin would
conduce either to hers or my father’s happiness, my adversary’s
designs against my life should not retard it a single hour.
In this state of mind I wrote to Elizabeth. My letter was calm
and affectionate. “I fear, my beloved girl,” I said, “little happiness
remains for us on earth; yet all that I may one day enjoy is centred
in you. Chase away your idle fears; to you alone do I consecrate
my life and my endeavours for contentment. I have one secret,
Elizabeth, a dreadful one; when revealed to you, it will chill your
frame with horror, and then, far from being surprised at my misery,
you will only wonder that I survive what I have endured. I will
confide this tale of misery and terror to you the day after our
marriage shall take place, for, my sweet cousin, there must be
perfect confidence between us. But until then, I conjure you, do not
mention or allude to it. This I most earnestly entreat, and I know
you will comply.”
In about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth’s letter we returned
to Geneva. The sweet girl welcomed me with warm affection, yet
tears were in her eyes as she beheld my emaciated frame and
feverish cheeks. I saw a change in her also. She was thinner and
had lost much of that heavenly vivacity that had before charmed
me; but her gentleness and soft looks of compassion made her a
more fit companion for one blasted and miserable as I was.
The tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not endure. Memory
brought madness with it, and when I thought of what had passed, a
real insanity possessed me; sometimes I was furious and burnt with
rage, sometimes low and despondent. I neither spoke nor looked at
anyone, but sat motionless, bewildered by the multitude of
miseries that overcame me.
Elizabeth alone had the power to draw me from these fits; her
gentle voice would soothe me when transported by passion and
inspire me with human feelings when sunk in torpor. She wept
with me and for me. When reason returned, she would remonstrate
and endeavour to inspire me with resignation. Ah! It is well for the
unfortunate to be resigned, but for the guilty there is no peace. The
agonies of remorse poison the luxury there is otherwise sometimes
found in indulging the excess of grief.
Soon after my arrival my father spoke of my immediate
marriage with Elizabeth. I remained silent.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

