The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

102 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

you? May not even this be a feint that will increase your triumph
by affording a wider scope for your revenge?”
“How is this? I must not be trifled with, and I demand an
answer. If I have no ties and no affections, hatred and vice must be
my portion; the love of another will destroy the cause of my
crimes, and I shall become a thing of whose existence everyone
will be ignorant. My vices are the children of a forced solitude that
I abhor, and my virtues will necessarily arise when I live in
communion with an equal. I shall feel the affections of a sensitive
being and become linked to the chain of existence and events from
which I am now excluded.”
I paused some time to reflect on all he had related and the
various arguments which he had employed. I thought of the
promise of virtues which he had displayed on the opening of his
existence and the subsequent blight of all kindly feeling by the
loathing and scorn which his protectors had manifested towards
him. His power and threats were not omitted in my calculations; a
creature who could exist in the ice-caves of the glaciers and hide
himself from pursuit among the ridges of inaccessible precipices
was a being possessing faculties it would be vain to cope with.
After a long pause of reflection I concluded that the justice due
both to him and my fellow creatures demanded of me that I should
comply with his request. Turning to him, therefore, I said,
“I consent to your demand, on your solemn oath to quit Europe
for ever, and every other place in the neighbourhood of man, as
soon as I shall deliver into your hands a female who will
accompany you in your exile.”
“I swear,” he cried, “by the sun, and by the blue sky of heaven,
and by the fire of love that burns my heart, that if you grant my
prayer, while they exist you shall never behold me again. Depart to
your home and commence your labours; I shall watch their
progress with unutterable anxiety; and fear not but that when you
are ready I shall appear.”
Saying this, he suddenly quitted me, fearful, perhaps, of any
change in my sentiments. I saw him descend the mountain with
greater speed than the flight of an eagle, and quickly lost among
the undulations of the sea of ice.
His tale had occupied the whole day, and the sun was upon the
verge of the horizon when he departed. I knew that I ought to
hasten my descent towards the valley, as I should soon be
encompassed in darkness; but my heart was heavy, and my steps
slow. The labour of winding among the little paths of the mountain
and fixing my feet firmly as I advanced perplexed me, occupied as
I was by the emotions which the occurrences of the day had
produced. Night was far advanced when I came to the halfway
resting-place and seated myself beside the fountain. The stars
shone at intervals as the clouds passed from over them; the dark
pines rose before me, and every here and there a broken tree lay on
the ground; it was a scene of wonderful solemnity and stirred
strange thoughts within me. I wept bitterly, and clasping my hands

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

