The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

127 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

friends dread a dangerous relapse. Alas! Why did they preserve so
miserable and detested a life? It was surely that I might fulfil my
destiny, which is now drawing to a close. Soon, oh, very soon, will
death extinguish these throbbings and relieve me from the mighty
weight of anguish that bears me to the dust; and, in executing the
award of justice, I shall also sink to rest. Then the appearance of
death was distant, although the wish was ever present to my
thoughts; and I often sat for hours motionless and speechless,
wishing for some mighty revolution that might bury me and my
destroyer in its ruins.
The season of the assizes approached. I had already been three
months in prison, and although I was still weak and in continual
danger of a relapse, I was obliged to travel nearly a hundred miles
to the country town where the court was held. Mr. Kirwin charged
himself with every care of collecting witnesses and arranging my
defence. I was spared the disgrace of appearing publicly as a
criminal, as the case was not brought before the court that decides
on life and death. The grand jury rejected the bill, on its being
proved that I was on the Orkney Islands at the hour the body of my
friend was found; and a fortnight after my removal I was liberated
from prison.
My father was enraptured on finding me freed from the
vexations of a criminal charge, that I was again allowed to breathe
the fresh atmosphere and permitted to return to my native country.
I did not participate in these feelings, for to me the walls of a
dungeon or a palace were alike hateful. The cup of life was
poisoned for ever, and although the sun shone upon me, as upon
the happy and gay of heart, I saw around me nothing but a dense
and frightful darkness, penetrated by no light but the glimmer of
two eyes that glared upon me. Sometimes they were the expressive
eyes of Henry, languishing in death, the dark orbs nearly covered
by the lids and the long black lashes that fringed them; sometimes
it was the watery, clouded eyes of the monster, as I first saw them
in my chamber at Ingolstadt.
My father tried to awaken in me the feelings of affection. He
talked of Geneva, which I should soon visit, of Elizabeth and
Ernest; but these words only drew deep groans from me.
Sometimes, indeed, I felt a wish for happiness and thought with
melancholy delight of my beloved cousin or longed, with a
devouring maladie du pays, to see once more the blue lake and
rapid Rhone, that had been so dear to me in early childhood; but
my general state of feeling was a torpor in which a prison was as
welcome a residence as the divinest scene in nature; and these fits
were seldom interrupted but by paroxysms of anguish and despair.
At these moments I often endeavoured to put an end to the
existence I loathed, and it required unceasing attendance and
vigilance to restrain me from committing some dreadful act of
violence.
Yet one duty remained to me, the recollection of which finally
triumphed over my selfish despair. It was necessary that I should

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

