The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

130 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

am the assassin of those most innocent victims; they died by my
machinations. A thousand times would I have shed my own blood,
drop by drop, to have saved their lives; but I could not, my father,
indeed I could not sacrifice the whole human race.”
The conclusion of this speech convinced my father that my ideas
were deranged, and he instantly changed the subject of our
conversation and endeavoured to alter the course of my thoughts.
He wished as much as possible to obliterate the memory of the
scenes that had taken place in Ireland and never alluded to them or
suffered me to speak of my misfortunes.
As time passed away I became more calm; misery had her
dwelling in my heart, but I no longer talked in the same incoherent
manner of my own crimes; sufficient for me was the consciousness
of them. By the utmost self-violence I curbed the imperious voice
of wretchedness, which sometimes desired to declare itself to the
whole world, and my manners were calmer and more composed
than they had ever been since my journey to the sea of ice.
A few days before we left Paris on our way to Switzerland, I
received the following letter from Elizabeth:
“My dear Friend,
“It gave me the greatest pleasure to receive a letter from my
uncle dated at Paris; you are no longer at a formidable distance,
and I may hope to see you in less than a fortnight. My poor cousin,
how much you must have suffered! I expect to see you looking
even more ill than when you quitted Geneva. This winter has been
passed most miserably, tortured as I have been by anxious
suspense; yet I hope to see peace in your countenance and to find
that your heart is not totally void of comfort and tranquillity.
“Yet I fear that the same feelings now exist that made you so
miserable a year ago, even perhaps augmented by time. I would
not disturb you at this period, when so many misfortunes weigh
upon you, but a conversation that I had with my uncle previous to
his departure renders some explanation necessary before we meet.
Explanation! You may possibly say, What can Elizabeth have to
explain? If you really say this, my questions are answered and all
my doubts satisfied. But you are distant from me, and it is possible
that you may dread and yet be pleased with this explanation; and in
a probability of this being the case, I dare not any longer postpone
writing what, during your absence, I have often wished to express
to you but have never had the courage to begin.
“You well know, Victor, that our union had been the favourite
plan of your parents ever since our infancy. We were told this when
young, and taught to look forward to it as an event that would
certainly take place. We were affectionate playfellows during
childhood, and, I believe, dear and valued friends to one another as
we grew older. But as brother and sister often entertain a lively
affection towards each other without desiring a more intimate
union, may not such also be our case? Tell me, dearest Victor.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

