The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

134 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

In the meantime I took every precaution to defend my person in
case the fiend should openly attack me. I carried pistols and a
dagger constantly about me and was ever on the watch to prevent
artifice, and by these means gained a greater degree of tranquillity.
Indeed, as the period approached, the threat appeared more as a
delusion, not to be regarded as worthy to disturb my peace, while
the happiness I hoped for in my marriage wore a greater
appearance of certainty as the day fixed for its solemnisation drew
nearer and I heard it continually spoken of as an occurrence which
no accident could possibly prevent.
Elizabeth seemed happy; my tranquil demeanour contributed
greatly to calm her mind. But on the day that was to fulfil my
wishes and my destiny, she was melancholy, and a presentiment of
evil pervaded her; and perhaps also she thought of the dreadful
secret which I had promised to reveal to her on the following day.
My father was in the meantime overjoyed, and, in the bustle of
preparation, only recognised in the melancholy of his niece the
diffidence of a bride.
After the ceremony was performed a large party assembled at
my father’s, but it was agreed that Elizabeth and I should
commence our journey by water, sleeping that night at Evian and
continuing our voyage on the following day. The day was fair, the
wind favourable; all smiled on our nuptial embarkation.
Those were the last moments of my life during which I enjoyed
the feeling of happiness. We passed rapidly along; the sun was hot,
but we were sheltered from its rays by a kind of canopy while we
enjoyed the beauty of the scene, sometimes on one side of the lake,
where we saw Mont Salêve, the pleasant banks of Montalègre, and
at a distance, surmounting all, the beautiful Mont Blanc, and the
assemblage of snowy mountains that in vain endeavour to emulate
her; sometimes coasting the opposite banks, we saw the mighty
Jura opposing its dark side to the ambition that would quit its
native country, and an almost insurmountable barrier to the invader
who should wish to enslave it.
I took the hand of Elizabeth. “You are sorrowful, my love. Ah!
If you knew what I have suffered and what I may yet endure, you
would endeavour to let me taste the quiet and freedom from
despair that this one day at least permits me to enjoy.”
“Be happy, my dear Victor,” replied Elizabeth; “there is, I hope,
nothing to distress you; and be assured that if a lively joy is not
painted in my face, my heart is contented. Something whispers to
me not to depend too much on the prospect that is opened before
us, but I will not listen to such a sinister voice. Observe how fast
we move along and how the clouds, which sometimes obscure and
sometimes rise above the dome of Mont Blanc, render this scene of
beauty still more interesting. Look also at the innumerable fish that
are swimming in the clear waters, where we can distinguish every
pebble that lies at the bottom. What a divine day! How happy and
serene all nature appears!”
Thus Elizabeth endeavoured to divert her thoughts and mine

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

