The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

14 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Will you smile at the enthusiasm I express concerning this
divine wanderer? You would not if you saw him. You have been
tutored and refined by books and retirement from the world, and
you are therefore somewhat fastidious; but this only renders you
the more fit to appreciate the extraordinary merits of this
wonderful man. Sometimes I have endeavoured to discover what
quality it is which he possesses that elevates him so immeasurably
above any other person I ever knew. I believe it to be an intuitive
discernment, a quick but never-failing power of judgment, a
penetration into the causes of things, unequalled for clearness and
precision; add to this a facility of expression and a voice whose
varied intonations are soul-subduing music.
August 19th, 17—.
Yesterday the stranger said to me, “You may easily perceive,
Captain Walton, that I have suffered great and unparalleled
misfortunes. I had determined at one time that the memory of these
evils should die with me, but you have won me to alter my
determination. You seek for knowledge and wisdom, as I once did;
and I ardently hope that the gratification of your wishes may not be
a serpent to sting you, as mine has been. I do not know that the
relation of my disasters will be useful to you; yet, when I reflect
that you are pursuing the same course, exposing yourself to the
same dangers which have rendered me what I am, I imagine that
you may deduce an apt moral from my tale, one that may direct
you if you succeed in your undertaking and console you in case of
failure. Prepare to hear of occurrences which are usually deemed
marvellous. Were we among the tamer scenes of nature I might
fear to encounter your unbelief, perhaps your ridicule; but many
things will appear possible in these wild and mysterious regions
which would provoke the laughter of those unacquainted with the
ever-varied powers of nature; nor can I doubt but that my tale
conveys in its series internal evidence of the truth of the events of
which it is composed.”
You may easily imagine that I was much gratified by the offered
communication, yet I could not endure that he should renew his
grief by a recital of his misfortunes. I felt the greatest eagerness to
hear the promised narrative, partly from curiosity and partly from a
strong desire to ameliorate his fate if it were in my power. I
expressed these feelings in my answer.
“I thank you,” he replied, “for your sympathy, but it is useless;
my fate is nearly fulfilled. I wait but for one event, and then I shall
repose in peace. I understand your feeling,” continued he,
perceiving that I wished to interrupt him; “but you are mistaken,
my friend, if thus you will allow me to name you; nothing can alter
my destiny; listen to my history, and you will perceive how
irrevocably it is determined.”
He then told me that he would commence his narrative the next
day when I should be at leisure. This promise drew from me the
warmest thanks. I have resolved every night, when I am not

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

