The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

151 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

September 9th, the ice began to move, and roarings like thunder
were heard at a distance as the islands split and cracked in every
direction. We were in the most imminent peril, but as we could
only remain passive, my chief attention was occupied by my
unfortunate guest whose illness increased in such a degree that he
was entirely confined to his bed. The ice cracked behind us and
was driven with force towards the north; a breeze sprang from the
west, and on the 11th the passage towards the south became
perfectly free. When the sailors saw this and that their return to
their native country was apparently assured, a shout of tumultuous
joy broke from them, loud and long-continued. Frankenstein, who
was dozing, awoke and asked the cause of the tumult. “They
shout,” I said, “because they will soon return to England.”
“Do you, then, really return?”
“Alas! Yes; I cannot withstand their demands. I cannot lead
them unwillingly to danger, and I must return.”
“Do so, if you will; but I will not. You may give up your
purpose, but mine is assigned to me by Heaven, and I dare not. I
am weak, but surely the spirits who assist my vengeance will
endow me with sufficient strength.” Saying this, he endeavoured to
spring from the bed, but the exertion was too great for him; he fell
back and fainted.
It was long before he was restored, and I often thought that life
was entirely extinct. At length he opened his eyes; he breathed
with difficulty and was unable to speak. The surgeon gave him a
composing draught and ordered us to leave him undisturbed. In the
meantime he told me that my friend had certainly not many hours
to live.
His sentence was pronounced, and I could only grieve and be
patient. I sat by his bed, watching him; his eyes were closed, and I
thought he slept; but presently he called to me in a feeble voice,
and bidding me come near, said, “Alas! The strength I relied on is
gone; I feel that I shall soon die, and he, my enemy and persecutor,
may still be in being. Think not, Walton, that in the last moments
of my existence I feel that burning hatred and ardent desire of
revenge I once expressed; but I feel myself justified in desiring the
death of my adversary. During these last days I have been occupied
in examining my past conduct; nor do I find it blamable. In a fit of
enthusiastic madness I created a rational creature and was bound
towards him to assure, as far as was in my power, his happiness
and well-being. This was my duty, but there was another still
paramount to that. My duties towards the beings of my own
species had greater claims to my attention because they included a
greater proportion of happiness or misery. Urged by this view, I
refused, and I did right in refusing, to create a companion for the
first creature. He showed unparalleled malignity and selfishness in
evil; he destroyed my friends; he devoted to destruction beings
who possessed exquisite sensations, happiness, and wisdom; nor
do I know where this thirst for vengeance may end. Miserable
himself that he may render no other wretched, he ought to die. The

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

