The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

105 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

you appear to feel.”
“My dear father, reassure yourself. I love my cousin tenderly
and sincerely. I never saw any woman who excited, as Elizabeth
does, my warmest admiration and affection. My future hopes and
prospects are entirely bound up in the expectation of our union.”
“The expression of your sentiments of this subject, my dear
Victor, gives me more pleasure than I have for some time
experienced. If you feel thus, we shall assuredly be happy,
however present events may cast a gloom over us. But it is this
gloom which appears to have taken so strong a hold of your mind
that I wish to dissipate. Tell me, therefore, whether you object to
an immediate solemnisation of the marriage. We have been
unfortunate, and recent events have drawn us from that everyday
tranquillity befitting my years and infirmities. You are younger; yet
I do not suppose, possessed as you are of a competent fortune, that
an early marriage would at all interfere with any future plans of
honour and utility that you may have formed. Do not suppose,
however, that I wish to dictate happiness to you or that a delay on
your part would cause me any serious uneasiness. Interpret my
words with candour and answer me, I conjure you, with confidence
and sincerity.”
I listened to my father in silence and remained for some time
incapable of offering any reply. I revolved rapidly in my mind a
multitude of thoughts and endeavoured to arrive at some
conclusion. Alas! To me the idea of an immediate union with my
Elizabeth was one of horror and dismay. I was bound by a solemn
promise which I had not yet fulfilled and dared not break, or if I
did, what manifold miseries might not impend over me and my
devoted family! Could I enter into a festival with this deadly
weight yet hanging round my neck and bowing me to the ground? I
must perform my engagement and let the monster depart with his
mate before I allowed myself to enjoy the delight of a union from
which I expected peace.
I remembered also the necessity imposed upon me of either
journeying to England or entering into a long correspondence with
those philosophers of that country whose knowledge and
discoveries were of indispensable use to me in my present
undertaking. The latter method of obtaining the desired
intelligence was dilatory and unsatisfactory; besides, I had an
insurmountable aversion to the idea of engaging myself in my
loathsome task in my father’s house while in habits of familiar
intercourse with those I loved. I knew that a thousand fearful
accidents might occur, the slightest of which would disclose a tale
to thrill all connected with me with horror. I was aware also that I
should often lose all self-command, all capacity of hiding the
harrowing sensations that would possess me during the progress of
my unearthly occupation. I must absent myself from all I loved
while thus employed. Once commenced, it would quickly be
achieved, and I might be restored to my family in peace and
happiness. My promise fulfilled, the monster would depart for

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

