The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

116 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

wretch saw me destroy the creature on whose future existence he
depended for happiness, and with a howl of devilish despair and
revenge, withdrew.
I left the room, and locking the door, made a solemn vow in my
own heart never to resume my labours; and then, with trembling
steps, I sought my own apartment. I was alone; none were near me
to dissipate the gloom and relieve me from the sickening
oppression of the most terrible reveries.
Several hours passed, and I remained near my window gazing
on the sea; it was almost motionless, for the winds were hushed,
and all nature reposed under the eye of the quiet moon. A few
fishing vessels alone specked the water, and now and then the
gentle breeze wafted the sound of voices as the fishermen called to
one another. I felt the silence, although I was hardly conscious of
its extreme profundity, until my ear was suddenly arrested by the
paddling of oars near the shore, and a person landed close to my
house.
In a few minutes after, I heard the creaking of my door, as if
some one endeavoured to open it softly. I trembled from head to
foot; I felt a presentiment of who it was and wished to rouse one of
the peasants who dwelt in a cottage not far from mine; but I was
overcome by the sensation of helplessness, so often felt in frightful
dreams, when you in vain endeavour to fly from an impending
danger, and was rooted to the spot.
Presently I heard the sound of footsteps along the passage; the
door opened, and the wretch whom I dreaded appeared. Shutting
the door, he approached me and said in a smothered voice,
“You have destroyed the work which you began; what is it that
you intend? Do you dare to break your promise? I have endured
toil and misery; I left Switzerland with you; I crept along the
shores of the Rhine, among its willow islands and over the
summits of its hills. I have dwelt many months in the heaths of
England and among the deserts of Scotland. I have endured
incalculable fatigue, and cold, and hunger; do you dare destroy my
hopes?”
“Begone! I do break my promise; never will I create another like
yourself, equal in deformity and wickedness.”
“Slave, I before reasoned with you, but you have proved
yourself unworthy of my condescension. Remember that I have
power; you believe yourself miserable, but I can make you so
wretched that the light of day will be hateful to you. You are my
creator, but I am your master; obey!”
“The hour of my irresolution is past, and the period of your
power is arrived. Your threats cannot move me to do an act of
wickedness; but they confirm me in a determination of not creating
you a companion in vice. Shall I, in cool blood, set loose upon the
earth a dæmon whose delight is in death and wretchedness?
Begone! I am firm, and your words will only exasperate my rage.”
The monster saw my determination in my face and gnashed his

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

