The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

139 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

during many months, as I understood, a solitary cell had been my
habitation.
Liberty, however, had been a useless gift to me, had I not, as I
awakened to reason, at the same time awakened to revenge. As the
memory of past misfortunes pressed upon me, I began to reflect on
their cause—the monster whom I had created, the miserable
dæmon whom I had sent abroad into the world for my destruction.
I was possessed by a maddening rage when I thought of him, and
desired and ardently prayed that I might have him within my grasp
to wreak a great and signal revenge on his cursed head.
Nor did my hate long confine itself to useless wishes; I began to
reflect on the best means of securing him; and for this purpose,
about a month after my release, I repaired to a criminal judge in the
town and told him that I had an accusation to make, that I knew the
destroyer of my family, and that I required him to exert his whole
authority for the apprehension of the murderer.
The magistrate listened to me with attention and kindness. “Be
assured, sir,” said he, “no pains or exertions on my part shall be
spared to discover the villain.”
“I thank you,” replied I; “listen, therefore, to the deposition that
I have to make. It is indeed a tale so strange that I should fear you
would not credit it were there not something in truth which,
however wonderful, forces conviction. The story is too connected
to be mistaken for a dream, and I have no motive for falsehood.”
My manner as I thus addressed him was impressive but calm; I had
formed in my own heart a resolution to pursue my destroyer to
death, and this purpose quieted my agony and for an interval
reconciled me to life. I now related my history briefly but with
firmness and precision, marking the dates with accuracy and never
deviating into invective or exclamation.
The magistrate appeared at first perfectly incredulous, but as I
continued he became more attentive and interested; I saw him
sometimes shudder with horror; at others a lively surprise,
unmingled with disbelief, was painted on his countenance.
When I had concluded my narration, I said, “This is the being
whom I accuse and for whose seizure and punishment I call upon
you to exert your whole power. It is your duty as a magistrate, and
I believe and hope that your feelings as a man will not revolt from
the execution of those functions on this occasion.”
This address caused a considerable change in the physiognomy
of my own auditor. He had heard my story with that half kind of
belief that is given to a tale of spirits and supernatural events; but
when he was called upon to act officially in consequence, the
whole tide of his incredulity returned. He, however, answered
mildly, “I would willingly afford you every aid in your pursuit, but
the creature of whom you speak appears to have powers which
would put all my exertions to defiance. Who can follow an animal
which can traverse the sea of ice and inhabit caves and dens where
no man would venture to intrude? Besides, some months have

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

