The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

158 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located
also govern what you can do with this work. Copyright laws
in most countries are in a constant state of change. If you are
outside the United States, check the laws of your country in
addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading,
copying, displaying, performing, distributing or creating
derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no representations
concerning the copyright status of any work in any country
other than the United States.
1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project
Gutenberg:
1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License
must appear prominently whenever any copy of a Project
Gutenberg™ work (any work on which the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” appears, or with which the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed,
viewed, copied or distributed:
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in
the United States and most other parts of the
world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or reuse it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
United States, you will have to check the laws of
the country where you are located before using
this eBook.
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does
not contain a notice indicating that it is posted with
permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying
any fees or charges. If you are redistributing or providing
access to a work with the phrase “Project Gutenberg”
associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through
1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg™ trademark as set forth in paragraphs
1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
posted with the permission of the copyright holder, your use
and distribution must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 and any additional terms imposed by the
copyright holder. Additional terms will be linked to the
Project Gutenberg™ License for all works posted with the

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

