The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

152 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

task of his destruction was mine, but I have failed. When actuated
by selfish and vicious motives, I asked you to undertake my
unfinished work, and I renew this request now, when I am only
induced by reason and virtue.
“Yet I cannot ask you to renounce your country and friends to
fulfil this task; and now that you are returning to England, you will
have little chance of meeting with him. But the consideration of
these points, and the well balancing of what you may esteem your
duties, I leave to you; my judgment and ideas are already disturbed
by the near approach of death. I dare not ask you to do what I think
right, for I may still be misled by passion.
“That he should live to be an instrument of mischief disturbs
me; in other respects, this hour, when I momentarily expect my
release, is the only happy one which I have enjoyed for several
years. The forms of the beloved dead flit before me, and I hasten to
their arms. Farewell, Walton! Seek happiness in tranquillity and
avoid ambition, even if it be only the apparently innocent one of
distinguishing yourself in science and discoveries. Yet why do I
say this? I have myself been blasted in these hopes, yet another
may succeed.”
His voice became fainter as he spoke, and at length, exhausted
by his effort, he sank into silence. About half an hour afterwards he
attempted again to speak but was unable; he pressed my hand
feebly, and his eyes closed for ever, while the irradiation of a
gentle smile passed away from his lips.
Margaret, what comment can I make on the untimely extinction
of this glorious spirit? What can I say that will enable you to
understand the depth of my sorrow? All that I should express
would be inadequate and feeble. My tears flow; my mind is
overshadowed by a cloud of disappointment. But I journey towards
England, and I may there find consolation.
I am interrupted. What do these sounds portend? It is midnight;
the breeze blows fairly, and the watch on deck scarcely stir. Again
there is a sound as of a human voice, but hoarser; it comes from
the cabin where the remains of Frankenstein still lie. I must arise
and examine. Good night, my sister.
Great God! what a scene has just taken place! I am yet dizzy
with the remembrance of it. I hardly know whether I shall have the
power to detail it; yet the tale which I have recorded would be
incomplete without this final and wonderful catastrophe.
I entered the cabin where lay the remains of my ill-fated and
admirable friend. Over him hung a form which I cannot find words
to describe—gigantic in stature, yet uncouth and distorted in its
proportions. As he hung over the coffin, his face was concealed by
long locks of ragged hair; but one vast hand was extended, in
colour and apparent texture like that of a mummy. When he heard
the sound of my approach, he ceased to utter exclamations of grief
and horror and sprung towards the window. Never did I behold a
vision so horrible as his face, of such loathsome yet appalling

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

