The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

156 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

“But soon,” he cried with sad and solemn enthusiasm, “I shall
die, and what I now feel be no longer felt. Soon these burning
miseries will be extinct. I shall ascend my funeral pile
triumphantly and exult in the agony of the torturing flames. The
light of that conflagration will fade away; my ashes will be swept
into the sea by the winds. My spirit will sleep in peace, or if it
thinks, it will not surely think thus. Farewell.”
He sprang from the cabin-window as he said this, upon the ice
raft which lay close to the vessel. He was soon borne away by the
waves and lost in darkness and distance.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK
FRANKENSTEIN; OR, THE MODERN PROMETHEUS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old
editions will be renamed.
Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S.
copyright law means that no one owns a United States
copyright in these works, so the Foundation (and you!) can
copy and distribute it in the United States without permission
and without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth
in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic
works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™ concept and
trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and
may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by
following the terms of the trademark license, including paying
royalties for use of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying
with the trademark license is very easy. You may use this
eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative
works, reports, performances and research. Project Gutenberg
eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you
may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with
eBooks not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS
WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the
free distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing
this work (or any other work associated in any way with the

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

