The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

133 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

“Have you, then, some other attachment?”
“None on earth. I love Elizabeth and look forward to our union
with delight. Let the day therefore be fixed; and on it I will
consecrate myself, in life or death, to the happiness of my cousin.”
“My dear Victor, do not speak thus. Heavy misfortunes have
befallen us, but let us only cling closer to what remains and
transfer our love for those whom we have lost to those who yet
live. Our circle will be small but bound close by the ties of
affection and mutual misfortune. And when time shall have
softened your despair, new and dear objects of care will be born to
replace those of whom we have been so cruelly deprived.”
Such were the lessons of my father. But to me the remembrance
of the threat returned; nor can you wonder that, omnipotent as the
fiend had yet been in his deeds of blood, I should almost regard
him as invincible, and that when he had pronounced the words “I
shall be with you on your wedding-night,” I should regard the
threatened fate as unavoidable. But death was no evil to me if the
loss of Elizabeth were balanced with it, and I therefore, with a
contented and even cheerful countenance, agreed with my father
that if my cousin would consent, the ceremony should take place in
ten days, and thus put, as I imagined, the seal to my fate.
Great God! If for one instant I had thought what might be the
hellish intention of my fiendish adversary, I would rather have
banished myself for ever from my native country and wandered a
friendless outcast over the earth than have consented to this
miserable marriage. But, as if possessed of magic powers, the
monster had blinded me to his real intentions; and when I thought
that I had prepared only my own death, I hastened that of a far
dearer victim.
As the period fixed for our marriage drew nearer, whether from
cowardice or a prophetic feeling, I felt my heart sink within me.
But I concealed my feelings by an appearance of hilarity that
brought smiles and joy to the countenance of my father, but hardly
deceived the ever-watchful and nicer eye of Elizabeth. She looked
forward to our union with placid contentment, not unmingled with
a little fear, which past misfortunes had impressed, that what now
appeared certain and tangible happiness might soon dissipate into
an airy dream and leave no trace but deep and everlasting regret.
Preparations were made for the event, congratulatory visits were
received, and all wore a smiling appearance. I shut up, as well as I
could, in my own heart the anxiety that preyed there and entered
with seeming earnestness into the plans of my father, although they
might only serve as the decorations of my tragedy. Through my
father’s exertions a part of the inheritance of Elizabeth had been
restored to her by the Austrian government. A small possession on
the shores of Como belonged to her. It was agreed that,
immediately after our union, we should proceed to Villa Lavenza
and spend our first days of happiness beside the beautiful lake near
which it stood.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

