The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

131 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Answer me, I conjure you by our mutual happiness, with simple
truth—Do you not love another?
“You have travelled; you have spent several years of your life at
Ingolstadt; and I confess to you, my friend, that when I saw you
last autumn so unhappy, flying to solitude from the society of
every creature, I could not help supposing that you might regret
our connection and believe yourself bound in honour to fulfil the
wishes of your parents, although they opposed themselves to your
inclinations. But this is false reasoning. I confess to you, my
friend, that I love you and that in my airy dreams of futurity you
have been my constant friend and companion. But it is your
happiness I desire as well as my own when I declare to you that
our marriage would render me eternally miserable unless it were
the dictate of your own free choice. Even now I weep to think that,
borne down as you are by the cruellest misfortunes, you may stifle,
by the word honour, all hope of that love and happiness which
would alone restore you to yourself. I, who have so disinterested
an affection for you, may increase your miseries tenfold by being
an obstacle to your wishes. Ah! Victor, be assured that your cousin
and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to be made
miserable by this supposition. Be happy, my friend; and if you
obey me in this one request, remain satisfied that nothing on earth
will have the power to interrupt my tranquillity.
“Do not let this letter disturb you; do not answer tomorrow, or
the next day, or even until you come, if it will give you pain. My
uncle will send me news of your health, and if I see but one smile
on your lips when we meet, occasioned by this or any other
exertion of mine, I shall need no other happiness.
“Elizabeth Lavenza.
“Geneva, May 18th, 17—”
This letter revived in my memory what I had before forgotten,
the threat of the fiend—“I will be with you on your weddingnight!” Such was my sentence, and on that night would the dæmon
employ every art to destroy me and tear me from the glimpse of
happiness which promised partly to console my sufferings. On that
night he had determined to consummate his crimes by my death.
Well, be it so; a deadly struggle would then assuredly take place, in
which if he were victorious I should be at peace and his power
over me be at an end. If he were vanquished, I should be a free
man. Alas! What freedom? Such as the peasant enjoys when his
family have been massacred before his eyes, his cottage burnt, his
lands laid waste, and he is turned adrift, homeless, penniless, and
alone, but free. Such would be my liberty except that in my
Elizabeth I possessed a treasure, alas, balanced by those horrors of
remorse and guilt which would pursue me until death.
Sweet and beloved Elizabeth! I read and reread her letter, and
some softened feelings stole into my heart and dared to whisper
paradisiacal dreams of love and joy; but the apple was already

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

