The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

115 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 20
I sat one evening in my laboratory; the sun had set, and the
moon was just rising from the sea; I had not sufficient light for my
employment, and I remained idle, in a pause of consideration of
whether I should leave my labour for the night or hasten its
conclusion by an unremitting attention to it. As I sat, a train of
reflection occurred to me which led me to consider the effects of
what I was now doing. Three years before, I was engaged in the
same manner and had created a fiend whose unparalleled barbarity
had desolated my heart and filled it for ever with the bitterest
remorse. I was now about to form another being of whose
dispositions I was alike ignorant; she might become ten thousand
times more malignant than her mate and delight, for its own sake,
in murder and wretchedness. He had sworn to quit the
neighbourhood of man and hide himself in deserts, but she had not;
and she, who in all probability was to become a thinking and
reasoning animal, might refuse to comply with a compact made
before her creation. They might even hate each other; the creature
who already lived loathed his own deformity, and might he not
conceive a greater abhorrence for it when it came before his eyes
in the female form? She also might turn with disgust from him to
the superior beauty of man; she might quit him, and he be again
alone, exasperated by the fresh provocation of being deserted by
one of his own species.
Even if they were to leave Europe and inhabit the deserts of the
new world, yet one of the first results of those sympathies for
which the dæmon thirsted would be children, and a race of devils
would be propagated upon the earth who might make the very
existence of the species of man a condition precarious and full of
terror. Had I right, for my own benefit, to inflict this curse upon
everlasting generations? I had before been moved by the sophisms
of the being I had created; I had been struck senseless by his
fiendish threats; but now, for the first time, the wickedness of my
promise burst upon me; I shuddered to think that future ages might
curse me as their pest, whose selfishness had not hesitated to buy
its own peace at the price, perhaps, of the existence of the whole
human race.
I trembled and my heart failed within me, when, on looking up, I
saw by the light of the moon the dæmon at the casement. A ghastly
grin wrinkled his lips as he gazed on me, where I sat fulfilling the
task which he had allotted to me. Yes, he had followed me in my
travels; he had loitered in forests, hid himself in caves, or taken
refuge in wide and desert heaths; and he now came to mark my
progress and claim the fulfilment of my promise.
As I looked on him, his countenance expressed the utmost extent
of malice and treachery. I thought with a sensation of madness on
my promise of creating another like to him, and trembling with
passion, tore to pieces the thing on which I was engaged. The

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

