The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

149 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

your heart-felt expectations is, in prospect, more terrible to me than
my own death. But you have a husband and lovely children; you
may be happy. Heaven bless you and make you so!
My unfortunate guest regards me with the tenderest compassion.
He endeavours to fill me with hope and talks as if life were a
possession which he valued. He reminds me how often the same
accidents have happened to other navigators who have attempted
this sea, and in spite of myself, he fills me with cheerful auguries.
Even the sailors feel the power of his eloquence; when he speaks,
they no longer despair; he rouses their energies, and while they
hear his voice they believe these vast mountains of ice are molehills which will vanish before the resolutions of man. These
feelings are transitory; each day of expectation delayed fills them
with fear, and I almost dread a mutiny caused by this despair.
September 5th.
A scene has just passed of such uncommon interest that,
although it is highly probable that these papers may never reach
you, yet I cannot forbear recording it.
We are still surrounded by mountains of ice, still in imminent
danger of being crushed in their conflict. The cold is excessive,
and many of my unfortunate comrades have already found a grave
amidst this scene of desolation. Frankenstein has daily declined in
health; a feverish fire still glimmers in his eyes, but he is
exhausted, and when suddenly roused to any exertion, he speedily
sinks again into apparent lifelessness.
I mentioned in my last letter the fears I entertained of a mutiny.
This morning, as I sat watching the wan countenance of my friend
—his eyes half closed and his limbs hanging listlessly—I was
roused by half a dozen of the sailors, who demanded admission
into the cabin. They entered, and their leader addressed me. He
told me that he and his companions had been chosen by the other
sailors to come in deputation to me to make me a requisition
which, in justice, I could not refuse. We were immured in ice and
should probably never escape, but they feared that if, as was
possible, the ice should dissipate and a free passage be opened, I
should be rash enough to continue my voyage and lead them into
fresh dangers, after they might happily have surmounted this. They
insisted, therefore, that I should engage with a solemn promise that
if the vessel should be freed I would instantly direct my course
southwards.
This speech troubled me. I had not despaired, nor had I yet
conceived the idea of returning if set free. Yet could I, in justice, or
even in possibility, refuse this demand? I hesitated before I
answered, when Frankenstein, who had at first been silent, and
indeed appeared hardly to have force enough to attend, now roused
himself; his eyes sparkled, and his cheeks flushed with momentary
vigour. Turning towards the men, he said,
“What do you mean? What do you demand of your captain? Are

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

