The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

138 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

knew not that my only remaining friends were safe from the
malignity of the fiend; my father even now might be writhing
under his grasp, and Ernest might be dead at his feet. This idea
made me shudder and recalled me to action. I started up and
resolved to return to Geneva with all possible speed.
There were no horses to be procured, and I must return by the
lake; but the wind was unfavourable, and the rain fell in torrents.
However, it was hardly morning, and I might reasonably hope to
arrive by night. I hired men to row and took an oar myself, for I
had always experienced relief from mental torment in bodily
exercise. But the overflowing misery I now felt, and the excess of
agitation that I endured rendered me incapable of any exertion. I
threw down the oar, and leaning my head upon my hands, gave
way to every gloomy idea that arose. If I looked up, I saw scenes
which were familiar to me in my happier time and which I had
contemplated but the day before in the company of her who was
now but a shadow and a recollection. Tears streamed from my
eyes. The rain had ceased for a moment, and I saw the fish play in
the waters as they had done a few hours before; they had then been
observed by Elizabeth. Nothing is so painful to the human mind as
a great and sudden change. The sun might shine or the clouds
might lower, but nothing could appear to me as it had done the day
before. A fiend had snatched from me every hope of future
happiness; no creature had ever been so miserable as I was; so
frightful an event is single in the history of man.
But why should I dwell upon the incidents that followed this last
overwhelming event? Mine has been a tale of horrors; I have
reached their acme, and what I must now relate can but be tedious
to you. Know that, one by one, my friends were snatched away; I
was left desolate. My own strength is exhausted, and I must tell, in
a few words, what remains of my hideous narration.
I arrived at Geneva. My father and Ernest yet lived, but the
former sunk under the tidings that I bore. I see him now, excellent
and venerable old man! His eyes wandered in vacancy, for they
had lost their charm and their delight—his Elizabeth, his more than
daughter, whom he doted on with all that affection which a man
feels, who in the decline of life, having few affections, clings more
earnestly to those that remain. Cursed, cursed be the fiend that
brought misery on his grey hairs and doomed him to waste in
wretchedness! He could not live under the horrors that were
accumulated around him; the springs of existence suddenly gave
way; he was unable to rise from his bed, and in a few days he died
in my arms.
What then became of me? I know not; I lost sensation, and
chains and darkness were the only objects that pressed upon me.
Sometimes, indeed, I dreamt that I wandered in flowery meadows
and pleasant vales with the friends of my youth, but I awoke and
found myself in a dungeon. Melancholy followed, but by degrees I
gained a clear conception of my miseries and situation and was
then released from my prison. For they had called me mad, and

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

