The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

100 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 17
The being finished speaking and fixed his looks upon me in the
expectation of a reply. But I was bewildered, perplexed, and unable
to arrange my ideas sufficiently to understand the full extent of his
proposition. He continued,
“You must create a female for me with whom I can live in the
interchange of those sympathies necessary for my being. This you
alone can do, and I demand it of you as a right which you must not
refuse to concede.”
The latter part of his tale had kindled anew in me the anger that
had died away while he narrated his peaceful life among the
cottagers, and as he said this I could no longer suppress the rage
that burned within me.
“I do refuse it,” I replied; “and no torture shall ever extort a
consent from me. You may render me the most miserable of men,
but you shall never make me base in my own eyes. Shall I create
another like yourself, whose joint wickedness might desolate the
world. Begone! I have answered you; you may torture me, but I
will never consent.”
“You are in the wrong,” replied the fiend; “and instead of
threatening, I am content to reason with you. I am malicious
because I am miserable. Am I not shunned and hated by all
mankind? You, my creator, would tear me to pieces and triumph;
remember that, and tell me why I should pity man more than he
pities me? You would not call it murder if you could precipitate me
into one of those ice-rifts and destroy my frame, the work of your
own hands. Shall I respect man when he condemns me? Let him
live with me in the interchange of kindness, and instead of injury I
would bestow every benefit upon him with tears of gratitude at his
acceptance. But that cannot be; the human senses are
insurmountable barriers to our union. Yet mine shall not be the
submission of abject slavery. I will revenge my injuries; if I cannot
inspire love, I will cause fear, and chiefly towards you my archenemy, because my creator, do I swear inextinguishable hatred.
Have a care; I will work at your destruction, nor finish until I
desolate your heart, so that you shall curse the hour of your birth.”
A fiendish rage animated him as he said this; his face was
wrinkled into contortions too horrible for human eyes to behold;
but presently he calmed himself and proceeded—
“I intended to reason. This passion is detrimental to me, for you
do not reflect that you are the cause of its excess. If any being felt
emotions of benevolence towards me, I should return them a
hundred and a hundredfold; for that one creature’s sake I would
make peace with the whole kind! But I now indulge in dreams of
bliss that cannot be realised. What I ask of you is reasonable and
moderate; I demand a creature of another sex, but as hideous as
myself; the gratification is small, but it is all that I can receive, and

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

