The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

145 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

paths of the sea secure.
By the quantity of provision which I had consumed, I should
guess that I had passed three weeks in this journey; and the
continual protraction of hope, returning back upon the heart, often
wrung bitter drops of despondency and grief from my eyes.
Despair had indeed almost secured her prey, and I should soon
have sunk beneath this misery. Once, after the poor animals that
conveyed me had with incredible toil gained the summit of a
sloping ice mountain, and one, sinking under his fatigue, died, I
viewed the expanse before me with anguish, when suddenly my
eye caught a dark speck upon the dusky plain. I strained my sight
to discover what it could be and uttered a wild cry of ecstasy when
I distinguished a sledge and the distorted proportions of a wellknown form within. Oh! With what a burning gush did hope revisit
my heart! Warm tears filled my eyes, which I hastily wiped away,
that they might not intercept the view I had of the dæmon; but still
my sight was dimmed by the burning drops, until, giving way to
the emotions that oppressed me, I wept aloud.
But this was not the time for delay; I disencumbered the dogs of
their dead companion, gave them a plentiful portion of food, and
after an hour’s rest, which was absolutely necessary, and yet which
was bitterly irksome to me, I continued my route. The sledge was
still visible, nor did I again lose sight of it except at the moments
when for a short time some ice-rock concealed it with its
intervening crags. I indeed perceptibly gained on it, and when,
after nearly two days’ journey, I beheld my enemy at no more than
a mile distant, my heart bounded within me.
But now, when I appeared almost within grasp of my foe, my
hopes were suddenly extinguished, and I lost all trace of him more
utterly than I had ever done before. A ground sea was heard; the
thunder of its progress, as the waters rolled and swelled beneath
me, became every moment more ominous and terrific. I pressed
on, but in vain. The wind arose; the sea roared; and, as with the
mighty shock of an earthquake, it split and cracked with a
tremendous and overwhelming sound. The work was soon
finished; in a few minutes a tumultuous sea rolled between me and
my enemy, and I was left drifting on a scattered piece of ice that
was continually lessening and thus preparing for me a hideous
death.
In this manner many appalling hours passed; several of my dogs
died, and I myself was about to sink under the accumulation of
distress when I saw your vessel riding at anchor and holding forth
to me hopes of succour and life. I had no conception that vessels
ever came so far north and was astounded at the sight. I quickly
destroyed part of my sledge to construct oars, and by these means
was enabled, with infinite fatigue, to move my ice raft in the
direction of your ship. I had determined, if you were going
southwards, still to trust myself to the mercy of the seas rather than
abandon my purpose. I hoped to induce you to grant me a boat
with which I could pursue my enemy. But your direction was

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

