The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

111 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

desired to accept this invitation, and I, although I abhorred society,
wished to view again mountains and streams and all the wondrous
works with which Nature adorns her chosen dwelling-places.
We had arrived in England at the beginning of October, and it
was now February. We accordingly determined to commence our
journey towards the north at the expiration of another month. In
this expedition we did not intend to follow the great road to
Edinburgh, but to visit Windsor, Oxford, Matlock, and the
Cumberland lakes, resolving to arrive at the completion of this tour
about the end of July. I packed up my chemical instruments and the
materials I had collected, resolving to finish my labours in some
obscure nook in the northern highlands of Scotland.
We quitted London on the 27th of March and remained a few
days at Windsor, rambling in its beautiful forest. This was a new
scene to us mountaineers; the majestic oaks, the quantity of game,
and the herds of stately deer were all novelties to us.
From thence we proceeded to Oxford. As we entered this city,
our minds were filled with the remembrance of the events that had
been transacted there more than a century and a half before. It was
here that Charles I. had collected his forces. This city had remained
faithful to him, after the whole nation had forsaken his cause to
join the standard of Parliament and liberty. The memory of that
unfortunate king and his companions, the amiable Falkland, the
insolent Goring, his queen, and son, gave a peculiar interest to
every part of the city which they might be supposed to have
inhabited. The spirit of elder days found a dwelling here, and we
delighted to trace its footsteps. If these feelings had not found an
imaginary gratification, the appearance of the city had yet in itself
sufficient beauty to obtain our admiration. The colleges are ancient
and picturesque; the streets are almost magnificent; and the lovely
Isis, which flows beside it through meadows of exquisite verdure,
is spread forth into a placid expanse of waters, which reflects its
majestic assemblage of towers, and spires, and domes, embosomed
among aged trees.
I enjoyed this scene, and yet my enjoyment was embittered both
by the memory of the past and the anticipation of the future. I was
formed for peaceful happiness. During my youthful days
discontent never visited my mind, and if I was ever overcome by
ennui, the sight of what is beautiful in nature or the study of what
is excellent and sublime in the productions of man could always
interest my heart and communicate elasticity to my spirits. But I
am a blasted tree; the bolt has entered my soul; and I felt then that I
should survive to exhibit what I shall soon cease to be—a
miserable spectacle of wrecked humanity, pitiable to others and
intolerable to myself.
We passed a considerable period at Oxford, rambling among its
environs and endeavouring to identify every spot which might
relate to the most animating epoch of English history. Our little
voyages of discovery were often prolonged by the successive
objects that presented themselves. We visited the tomb of the

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

