The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

114 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

miserable penury. The thatch had fallen in, the walls were
unplastered, and the door was off its hinges. I ordered it to be
repaired, bought some furniture, and took possession, an incident
which would doubtless have occasioned some surprise had not all
the senses of the cottagers been benumbed by want and squalid
poverty. As it was, I lived ungazed at and unmolested, hardly
thanked for the pittance of food and clothes which I gave, so much
does suffering blunt even the coarsest sensations of men.
In this retreat I devoted the morning to labour; but in the
evening, when the weather permitted, I walked on the stony beach
of the sea to listen to the waves as they roared and dashed at my
feet. It was a monotonous yet ever-changing scene. I thought of
Switzerland; it was far different from this desolate and appalling
landscape. Its hills are covered with vines, and its cottages are
scattered thickly in the plains. Its fair lakes reflect a blue and
gentle sky, and when troubled by the winds, their tumult is but as
the play of a lively infant when compared to the roarings of the
giant ocean.
In this manner I distributed my occupations when I first arrived,
but as I proceeded in my labour, it became every day more horrible
and irksome to me. Sometimes I could not prevail on myself to
enter my laboratory for several days, and at other times I toiled day
and night in order to complete my work. It was, indeed, a filthy
process in which I was engaged. During my first experiment, a
kind of enthusiastic frenzy had blinded me to the horror of my
employment; my mind was intently fixed on the consummation of
my labour, and my eyes were shut to the horror of my proceedings.
But now I went to it in cold blood, and my heart often sickened at
the work of my hands.
Thus situated, employed in the most detestable occupation,
immersed in a solitude where nothing could for an instant call my
attention from the actual scene in which I was engaged, my spirits
became unequal; I grew restless and nervous. Every moment I
feared to meet my persecutor. Sometimes I sat with my eyes fixed
on the ground, fearing to raise them lest they should encounter the
object which I so much dreaded to behold. I feared to wander from
the sight of my fellow creatures lest when alone he should come to
claim his companion.
In the mean time I worked on, and my labour was already
considerably advanced. I looked towards its completion with a
tremulous and eager hope, which I dared not trust myself to
question but which was intermixed with obscure forebodings of
evil that made my heart sicken in my bosom.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

