The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

129 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 22
The voyage came to an end. We landed, and proceeded to Paris.
I soon found that I had overtaxed my strength and that I must
repose before I could continue my journey. My father’s care and
attentions were indefatigable, but he did not know the origin of my
sufferings and sought erroneous methods to remedy the incurable
ill. He wished me to seek amusement in society. I abhorred the face
of man. Oh, not abhorred! They were my brethren, my fellow
beings, and I felt attracted even to the most repulsive among them,
as to creatures of an angelic nature and celestial mechanism. But I
felt that I had no right to share their intercourse. I had unchained an
enemy among them whose joy it was to shed their blood and to
revel in their groans. How they would, each and all, abhor me and
hunt me from the world, did they know my unhallowed acts and
the crimes which had their source in me!
My father yielded at length to my desire to avoid society and
strove by various arguments to banish my despair. Sometimes he
thought that I felt deeply the degradation of being obliged to
answer a charge of murder, and he endeavoured to prove to me the
futility of pride.
“Alas! My father,” said I, “how little do you know me. Human
beings, their feelings and passions, would indeed be degraded if
such a wretch as I felt pride. Justine, poor unhappy Justine, was as
innocent as I, and she suffered the same charge; she died for it; and
I am the cause of this—I murdered her. William, Justine, and
Henry—they all died by my hands.”
My father had often, during my imprisonment, heard me make
the same assertion; when I thus accused myself, he sometimes
seemed to desire an explanation, and at others he appeared to
consider it as the offspring of delirium, and that, during my illness,
some idea of this kind had presented itself to my imagination, the
remembrance of which I preserved in my convalescence. I avoided
explanation and maintained a continual silence concerning the
wretch I had created. I had a persuasion that I should be supposed
mad, and this in itself would for ever have chained my tongue. But,
besides, I could not bring myself to disclose a secret which would
fill my hearer with consternation and make fear and unnatural
horror the inmates of his breast. I checked, therefore, my impatient
thirst for sympathy and was silent when I would have given the
world to have confided the fatal secret. Yet, still, words like those I
have recorded would burst uncontrollably from me. I could offer
no explanation of them, but their truth in part relieved the burden
of my mysterious woe.
Upon this occasion my father said, with an expression of
unbounded wonder, “My dearest Victor, what infatuation is this?
My dear son, I entreat you never to make such an assertion again.”
“I am not mad,” I cried energetically; “the sun and the heavens,
who have viewed my operations, can bear witness of my truth. I

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

