The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

154 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

anguish, to riot in the excess of my despair. Evil thenceforth
became my good. Urged thus far, I had no choice but to adapt my
nature to an element which I had willingly chosen. The completion
of my demoniacal design became an insatiable passion. And now it
is ended; there is my last victim!”
I was at first touched by the expressions of his misery; yet, when
I called to mind what Frankenstein had said of his powers of
eloquence and persuasion, and when I again cast my eyes on the
lifeless form of my friend, indignation was rekindled within me.
“Wretch!” I said. “It is well that you come here to whine over the
desolation that you have made. You throw a torch into a pile of
buildings, and when they are consumed, you sit among the ruins
and lament the fall. Hypocritical fiend! If he whom you mourn still
lived, still would he be the object, again would he become the prey,
of your accursed vengeance. It is not pity that you feel; you lament
only because the victim of your malignity is withdrawn from your
power.”
“Oh, it is not thus—not thus,” interrupted the being. “Yet such
must be the impression conveyed to you by what appears to be the
purport of my actions. Yet I seek not a fellow feeling in my misery.
No sympathy may I ever find. When I first sought it, it was the
love of virtue, the feelings of happiness and affection with which
my whole being overflowed, that I wished to be participated. But
now that virtue has become to me a shadow, and that happiness
and affection are turned into bitter and loathing despair, in what
should I seek for sympathy? I am content to suffer alone while my
sufferings shall endure; when I die, I am well satisfied that
abhorrence and opprobrium should load my memory. Once my
fancy was soothed with dreams of virtue, of fame, and of
enjoyment. Once I falsely hoped to meet with beings who,
pardoning my outward form, would love me for the excellent
qualities which I was capable of unfolding. I was nourished with
high thoughts of honour and devotion. But now crime has
degraded me beneath the meanest animal. No guilt, no mischief, no
malignity, no misery, can be found comparable to mine. When I
run over the frightful catalogue of my sins, I cannot believe that I
am the same creature whose thoughts were once filled with
sublime and transcendent visions of the beauty and the majesty of
goodness. But it is even so; the fallen angel becomes a malignant
devil. Yet even that enemy of God and man had friends and
associates in his desolation; I am alone.
“You, who call Frankenstein your friend, seem to have a
knowledge of my crimes and his misfortunes. But in the detail
which he gave you of them he could not sum up the hours and
months of misery which I endured wasting in impotent passions.
For while I destroyed his hopes, I did not satisfy my own desires.
They were for ever ardent and craving; still I desired love and
fellowship, and I was still spurned. Was there no injustice in this?
Am I to be thought the only criminal, when all humankind sinned
against me? Why do you not hate Felix, who drove his friend from

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

