The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

108 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

cloudless blue sky, I seemed to drink in a tranquillity to which I
had long been a stranger. And if these were my sensations, who
can describe those of Henry? He felt as if he had been transported
to Fairy-land and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted by man. “I
have seen,” he said, “the most beautiful scenes of my own country;
I have visited the lakes of Lucerne and Uri, where the snowy
mountains descend almost perpendicularly to the water, casting
black and impenetrable shades, which would cause a gloomy and
mournful appearance were it not for the most verdant islands that
relieve the eye by their gay appearance; I have seen this lake
agitated by a tempest, when the wind tore up whirlwinds of water
and gave you an idea of what the water-spout must be on the great
ocean; and the waves dash with fury the base of the mountain,
where the priest and his mistress were overwhelmed by an
avalanche and where their dying voices are still said to be heard
amid the pauses of the nightly wind; I have seen the mountains of
La Valais, and the Pays de Vaud; but this country, Victor, pleases
me more than all those wonders. The mountains of Switzerland are
more majestic and strange, but there is a charm in the banks of this
divine river that I never before saw equalled. Look at that castle
which overhangs yon precipice; and that also on the island, almost
concealed amongst the foliage of those lovely trees; and now that
group of labourers coming from among their vines; and that village
half hid in the recess of the mountain. Oh, surely the spirit that
inhabits and guards this place has a soul more in harmony with
man than those who pile the glacier or retire to the inaccessible
peaks of the mountains of our own country.”
Clerval! Beloved friend! Even now it delights me to record your
words and to dwell on the praise of which you are so eminently
deserving. He was a being formed in the “very poetry of nature.”
His wild and enthusiastic imagination was chastened by the
sensibility of his heart. His soul overflowed with ardent affections,
and his friendship was of that devoted and wondrous nature that
the worldly-minded teach us to look for only in the imagination.
But even human sympathies were not sufficient to satisfy his eager
mind. The scenery of external nature, which others regard only
with admiration, he loved with ardour:—
——The sounding cataract
Haunted him like a passion: the tall rock,
The mountain, and the deep and gloomy wood,
Their colours and their forms, were then to him
An appetite; a feeling, and a love,
That had no need of a remoter charm,
By thought supplied, or any interest
Unborrow’d from the eye.
[Wordsworth’s “Tintern Abbey”.]

And where does he now exist? Is this gentle and lovely being
lost for ever? Has this mind, so replete with ideas, imaginations
fanciful and magnificent, which formed a world, whose existence

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

