The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

112 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

illustrious Hampden and the field on which that patriot fell. For a
moment my soul was elevated from its debasing and miserable
fears to contemplate the divine ideas of liberty and self-sacrifice of
which these sights were the monuments and the remembrancers.
For an instant I dared to shake off my chains and look around me
with a free and lofty spirit, but the iron had eaten into my flesh,
and I sank again, trembling and hopeless, into my miserable self.
We left Oxford with regret and proceeded to Matlock, which
was our next place of rest. The country in the neighbourhood of
this village resembled, to a greater degree, the scenery of
Switzerland; but everything is on a lower scale, and the green hills
want the crown of distant white Alps which always attend on the
piny mountains of my native country. We visited the wondrous
cave and the little cabinets of natural history, where the curiosities
are disposed in the same manner as in the collections at Servox and
Chamounix. The latter name made me tremble when pronounced
by Henry, and I hastened to quit Matlock, with which that terrible
scene was thus associated.
From Derby, still journeying northwards, we passed two months
in Cumberland and Westmorland. I could now almost fancy myself
among the Swiss mountains. The little patches of snow which yet
lingered on the northern sides of the mountains, the lakes, and the
dashing of the rocky streams were all familiar and dear sights to
me. Here also we made some acquaintances, who almost contrived
to cheat me into happiness. The delight of Clerval was
proportionably greater than mine; his mind expanded in the
company of men of talent, and he found in his own nature greater
capacities and resources than he could have imagined himself to
have possessed while he associated with his inferiors. “I could pass
my life here,” said he to me; “and among these mountains I should
scarcely regret Switzerland and the Rhine.”
But he found that a traveller’s life is one that includes much pain
amidst its enjoyments. His feelings are for ever on the stretch; and
when he begins to sink into repose, he finds himself obliged to quit
that on which he rests in pleasure for something new, which again
engages his attention, and which also he forsakes for other
novelties.
We had scarcely visited the various lakes of Cumberland and
Westmorland and conceived an affection for some of the
inhabitants when the period of our appointment with our Scotch
friend approached, and we left them to travel on. For my own part
I was not sorry. I had now neglected my promise for some time,
and I feared the effects of the dæmon’s disappointment. He might
remain in Switzerland and wreak his vengeance on my relatives.
This idea pursued me and tormented me at every moment from
which I might otherwise have snatched repose and peace. I waited
for my letters with feverish impatience; if they were delayed I was
miserable and overcome by a thousand fears; and when they
arrived and I saw the superscription of Elizabeth or my father, I
hardly dared to read and ascertain my fate. Sometimes I thought

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

