The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

153 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

hideousness. I shut my eyes involuntarily and endeavoured to
recollect what were my duties with regard to this destroyer. I called
on him to stay.
He paused, looking on me with wonder, and again turning
towards the lifeless form of his creator, he seemed to forget my
presence, and every feature and gesture seemed instigated by the
wildest rage of some uncontrollable passion.
“That is also my victim!” he exclaimed. “In his murder my
crimes are consummated; the miserable series of my being is
wound to its close! Oh, Frankenstein! Generous and self-devoted
being! What does it avail that I now ask thee to pardon me? I, who
irretrievably destroyed thee by destroying all thou lovedst. Alas!
He is cold, he cannot answer me.”
His voice seemed suffocated, and my first impulses, which had
suggested to me the duty of obeying the dying request of my friend
in destroying his enemy, were now suspended by a mixture of
curiosity and compassion. I approached this tremendous being; I
dared not again raise my eyes to his face, there was something so
scaring and unearthly in his ugliness. I attempted to speak, but the
words died away on my lips. The monster continued to utter wild
and incoherent self-reproaches. At length I gathered resolution to
address him in a pause of the tempest of his passion.
“Your repentance,” I said, “is now superfluous. If you had
listened to the voice of conscience and heeded the stings of
remorse before you had urged your diabolical vengeance to this
extremity, Frankenstein would yet have lived.”
“And do you dream?” said the dæmon. “Do you think that I was
then dead to agony and remorse? He,” he continued, pointing to
the corpse, “he suffered not in the consummation of the deed. Oh!
Not the ten-thousandth portion of the anguish that was mine during
the lingering detail of its execution. A frightful selfishness hurried
me on, while my heart was poisoned with remorse. Think you that
the groans of Clerval were music to my ears? My heart was
fashioned to be susceptible of love and sympathy, and when
wrenched by misery to vice and hatred, it did not endure the
violence of the change without torture such as you cannot even
imagine.
“After the murder of Clerval I returned to Switzerland, heartbroken and overcome. I pitied Frankenstein; my pity amounted to
horror; I abhorred myself. But when I discovered that he, the
author at once of my existence and of its unspeakable torments,
dared to hope for happiness, that while he accumulated
wretchedness and despair upon me he sought his own enjoyment in
feelings and passions from the indulgence of which I was for ever
barred, then impotent envy and bitter indignation filled me with an
insatiable thirst for vengeance. I recollected my threat and resolved
that it should be accomplished. I knew that I was preparing for
myself a deadly torture, but I was the slave, not the master, of an
impulse which I detested yet could not disobey. Yet when she died!
Nay, then I was not miserable. I had cast off all feeling, subdued all

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

