The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

17 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

of subsistence decreased; and in the tenth month her father died in
her arms, leaving her an orphan and a beggar. This last blow
overcame her, and she knelt by Beaufort’s coffin weeping bitterly,
when my father entered the chamber. He came like a protecting
spirit to the poor girl, who committed herself to his care; and after
the interment of his friend he conducted her to Geneva and placed
her under the protection of a relation. Two years after this event
Caroline became his wife.
There was a considerable difference between the ages of my
parents, but this circumstance seemed to unite them only closer in
bonds of devoted affection. There was a sense of justice in my
father’s upright mind which rendered it necessary that he should
approve highly to love strongly. Perhaps during former years he
had suffered from the late-discovered unworthiness of one beloved
and so was disposed to set a greater value on tried worth. There
was a show of gratitude and worship in his attachment to my
mother, differing wholly from the doting fondness of age, for it
was inspired by reverence for her virtues and a desire to be the
means of, in some degree, recompensing her for the sorrows she
had endured, but which gave inexpressible grace to his behaviour
to her. Everything was made to yield to her wishes and her
convenience. He strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic is sheltered
by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her with
all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion in her soft and
benevolent mind. Her health, and even the tranquillity of her
hitherto constant spirit, had been shaken by what she had gone
through. During the two years that had elapsed previous to their
marriage my father had gradually relinquished all his public
functions; and immediately after their union they sought the
pleasant climate of Italy, and the change of scene and interest
attendant on a tour through that land of wonders, as a restorative
for her weakened frame.
From Italy they visited Germany and France. I, their eldest
child, was born at Naples, and as an infant accompanied them in
their rambles. I remained for several years their only child. Much
as they were attached to each other, they seemed to draw
inexhaustible stores of affection from a very mine of love to
bestow them upon me. My mother’s tender caresses and my
father’s smile of benevolent pleasure while regarding me are my
first recollections. I was their plaything and their idol, and
something better—their child, the innocent and helpless creature
bestowed on them by Heaven, whom to bring up to good, and
whose future lot it was in their hands to direct to happiness or
misery, according as they fulfilled their duties towards me. With
this deep consciousness of what they owed towards the being to
which they had given life, added to the active spirit of tenderness
that animated both, it may be imagined that while during every
hour of my infant life I received a lesson of patience, of charity,
and of self-control, I was so guided by a silken cord that all seemed
but one train of enjoyment to me.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

