The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

29 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

a new way, explore unknown powers, and unfold to the world the
deepest mysteries of creation.
I closed not my eyes that night. My internal being was in a state
of insurrection and turmoil; I felt that order would thence arise, but
I had no power to produce it. By degrees, after the morning’s
dawn, sleep came. I awoke, and my yesternight’s thoughts were as
a dream. There only remained a resolution to return to my ancient
studies and to devote myself to a science for which I believed
myself to possess a natural talent. On the same day I paid M.
Waldman a visit. His manners in private were even more mild and
attractive than in public, for there was a certain dignity in his mien
during his lecture which in his own house was replaced by the
greatest affability and kindness. I gave him pretty nearly the same
account of my former pursuits as I had given to his fellow
professor. He heard with attention the little narration concerning
my studies and smiled at the names of Cornelius Agrippa and
Paracelsus, but without the contempt that M. Krempe had
exhibited. He said that “These were men to whose indefatigable
zeal modern philosophers were indebted for most of the
foundations of their knowledge. They had left to us, as an easier
task, to give new names and arrange in connected classifications
the facts which they in a great degree had been the instruments of
bringing to light. The labours of men of genius, however
erroneously directed, scarcely ever fail in ultimately turning to the
solid advantage of mankind.” I listened to his statement, which was
delivered without any presumption or affectation, and then added
that his lecture had removed my prejudices against modern
chemists; I expressed myself in measured terms, with the modesty
and deference due from a youth to his instructor, without letting
escape (inexperience in life would have made me ashamed) any of
the enthusiasm which stimulated my intended labours. I requested
his advice concerning the books I ought to procure.
“I am happy,” said M. Waldman, “to have gained a disciple; and
if your application equals your ability, I have no doubt of your
success. Chemistry is that branch of natural philosophy in which
the greatest improvements have been and may be made; it is on
that account that I have made it my peculiar study; but at the same
time, I have not neglected the other branches of science. A man
would make but a very sorry chemist if he attended to that
department of human knowledge alone. If your wish is to become
really a man of science and not merely a petty experimentalist, I
should advise you to apply to every branch of natural philosophy,
including mathematics.”
He then took me into his laboratory and explained to me the uses
of his various machines, instructing me as to what I ought to
procure and promising me the use of his own when I should have
advanced far enough in the science not to derange their
mechanism. He also gave me the list of books which I had
requested, and I took my leave.
Thus ended a day memorable to me; it decided my future

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

