The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

28 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

very different when the masters of the science sought immortality
and power; such views, although futile, were grand; but now the
scene was changed. The ambition of the inquirer seemed to limit
itself to the annihilation of those visions on which my interest in
science was chiefly founded. I was required to exchange chimeras
of boundless grandeur for realities of little worth.
Such were my reflections during the first two or three days of
my residence at Ingolstadt, which were chiefly spent in becoming
acquainted with the localities and the principal residents in my new
abode. But as the ensuing week commenced, I thought of the
information which M. Krempe had given me concerning the
lectures. And although I could not consent to go and hear that little
conceited fellow deliver sentences out of a pulpit, I recollected
what he had said of M. Waldman, whom I had never seen, as he
had hitherto been out of town.
Partly from curiosity and partly from idleness, I went into the
lecturing room, which M. Waldman entered shortly after. This
professor was very unlike his colleague. He appeared about fifty
years of age, but with an aspect expressive of the greatest
benevolence; a few grey hairs covered his temples, but those at the
back of his head were nearly black. His person was short but
remarkably erect and his voice the sweetest I had ever heard. He
began his lecture by a recapitulation of the history of chemistry
and the various improvements made by different men of learning,
pronouncing with fervour the names of the most distinguished
discoverers. He then took a cursory view of the present state of the
science and explained many of its elementary terms. After having
made a few preparatory experiments, he concluded with a
panegyric upon modern chemistry, the terms of which I shall never
forget:
“The ancient teachers of this science,” said he, “promised
impossibilities and performed nothing. The modern masters
promise very little; they know that metals cannot be transmuted
and that the elixir of life is a chimera but these philosophers,
whose hands seem only made to dabble in dirt, and their eyes to
pore over the microscope or crucible, have indeed performed
miracles. They penetrate into the recesses of nature and show how
she works in her hiding-places. They ascend into the heavens; they
have discovered how the blood circulates, and the nature of the air
we breathe. They have acquired new and almost unlimited powers;
they can command the thunders of heaven, mimic the earthquake,
and even mock the invisible world with its own shadows.”
Such were the professor’s words—rather let me say such the
words of the fate—enounced to destroy me. As he went on I felt as
if my soul were grappling with a palpable enemy; one by one the
various keys were touched which formed the mechanism of my
being; chord after chord was sounded, and soon my mind was
filled with one thought, one conception, one purpose. So much has
been done, exclaimed the soul of Frankenstein—more, far more,
will I achieve; treading in the steps already marked, I will pioneer

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

