The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

37 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

escaped and rushed downstairs. I took refuge in the courtyard
belonging to the house which I inhabited, where I remained during
the rest of the night, walking up and down in the greatest agitation,
listening attentively, catching and fearing each sound as if it were
to announce the approach of the demoniacal corpse to which I had
so miserably given life.
Oh! No mortal could support the horror of that countenance. A
mummy again endued with animation could not be so hideous as
that wretch. I had gazed on him while unfinished; he was ugly
then, but when those muscles and joints were rendered capable of
motion, it became a thing such as even Dante could not have
conceived.
I passed the night wretchedly. Sometimes my pulse beat so
quickly and hardly that I felt the palpitation of every artery; at
others, I nearly sank to the ground through languor and extreme
weakness. Mingled with this horror, I felt the bitterness of
disappointment; dreams that had been my food and pleasant rest
for so long a space were now become a hell to me; and the change
was so rapid, the overthrow so complete!
Morning, dismal and wet, at length dawned and discovered to
my sleepless and aching eyes the church of Ingolstadt, its white
steeple and clock, which indicated the sixth hour. The porter
opened the gates of the court, which had that night been my
asylum, and I issued into the streets, pacing them with quick steps,
as if I sought to avoid the wretch whom I feared every turning of
the street would present to my view. I did not dare return to the
apartment which I inhabited, but felt impelled to hurry on,
although drenched by the rain which poured from a black and
comfortless sky.
I continued walking in this manner for some time, endeavouring
by bodily exercise to ease the load that weighed upon my mind. I
traversed the streets without any clear conception of where I was
or what I was doing. My heart palpitated in the sickness of fear,
and I hurried on with irregular steps, not daring to look about me:
Like one who, on a lonely road,
Doth walk in fear and dread,
And, having once turned round, walks on,
And turns no more his head;
Because he knows a frightful fiend
Doth close behind him tread.
[Coleridge’s “Ancient Mariner.”]

Continuing thus, I came at length opposite to the inn at which
the various diligences and carriages usually stopped. Here I
paused, I knew not why; but I remained some minutes with my
eyes fixed on a coach that was coming towards me from the other
end of the street. As it drew nearer I observed that it was the Swiss
diligence; it stopped just where I was standing, and on the door
being opened, I perceived Henry Clerval, who, on seeing me,

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

