The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

39 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Clerval.
We ascended into my room, and the servant presently brought
breakfast; but I was unable to contain myself. It was not joy only
that possessed me; I felt my flesh tingle with excess of
sensitiveness, and my pulse beat rapidly. I was unable to remain
for a single instant in the same place; I jumped over the chairs,
clapped my hands, and laughed aloud. Clerval at first attributed my
unusual spirits to joy on his arrival, but when he observed me more
attentively, he saw a wildness in my eyes for which he could not
account, and my loud, unrestrained, heartless laughter frightened
and astonished him.
“My dear Victor,” cried he, “what, for God’s sake, is the matter?
Do not laugh in that manner. How ill you are! What is the cause of
all this?”
“Do not ask me,” cried I, putting my hands before my eyes, for I
thought I saw the dreaded spectre glide into the room; “he can tell.
Oh, save me! Save me!” I imagined that the monster seized me; I
struggled furiously and fell down in a fit.
Poor Clerval! What must have been his feelings? A meeting,
which he anticipated with such joy, so strangely turned to
bitterness. But I was not the witness of his grief, for I was lifeless
and did not recover my senses for a long, long time.
This was the commencement of a nervous fever which confined
me for several months. During all that time Henry was my only
nurse. I afterwards learned that, knowing my father’s advanced age
and unfitness for so long a journey, and how wretched my sickness
would make Elizabeth, he spared them this grief by concealing the
extent of my disorder. He knew that I could not have a more kind
and attentive nurse than himself; and, firm in the hope he felt of
my recovery, he did not doubt that, instead of doing harm, he
performed the kindest action that he could towards them.
But I was in reality very ill, and surely nothing but the
unbounded and unremitting attentions of my friend could have
restored me to life. The form of the monster on whom I had
bestowed existence was for ever before my eyes, and I raved
incessantly concerning him. Doubtless my words surprised Henry;
he at first believed them to be the wanderings of my disturbed
imagination, but the pertinacity with which I continually recurred
to the same subject persuaded him that my disorder indeed owed
its origin to some uncommon and terrible event.
By very slow degrees, and with frequent relapses that alarmed
and grieved my friend, I recovered. I remember the first time I
became capable of observing outward objects with any kind of
pleasure, I perceived that the fallen leaves had disappeared and that
the young buds were shooting forth from the trees that shaded my
window. It was a divine spring, and the season contributed greatly
to my convalescence. I felt also sentiments of joy and affection
revive in my bosom; my gloom disappeared, and in a short time I
became as cheerful as before I was attacked by the fatal passion.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

