The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

36 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 5
It was on a dreary night of November that I beheld the
accomplishment of my toils. With an anxiety that almost amounted
to agony, I collected the instruments of life around me, that I might
infuse a spark of being into the lifeless thing that lay at my feet. It
was already one in the morning; the rain pattered dismally against
the panes, and my candle was nearly burnt out, when, by the
glimmer of the half-extinguished light, I saw the dull yellow eye of
the creature open; it breathed hard, and a convulsive motion
agitated its limbs.
How can I describe my emotions at this catastrophe, or how
delineate the wretch whom with such infinite pains and care I had
endeavoured to form? His limbs were in proportion, and I had
selected his features as beautiful. Beautiful! Great God! His yellow
skin scarcely covered the work of muscles and arteries beneath; his
hair was of a lustrous black, and flowing; his teeth of a pearly
whiteness; but these luxuriances only formed a more horrid
contrast with his watery eyes, that seemed almost of the same
colour as the dun-white sockets in which they were set, his
shrivelled complexion and straight black lips.
The different accidents of life are not so changeable as the
feelings of human nature. I had worked hard for nearly two years,
for the sole purpose of infusing life into an inanimate body. For
this I had deprived myself of rest and health. I had desired it with
an ardour that far exceeded moderation; but now that I had
finished, the beauty of the dream vanished, and breathless horror
and disgust filled my heart. Unable to endure the aspect of the
being I had created, I rushed out of the room and continued a long
time traversing my bed-chamber, unable to compose my mind to
sleep. At length lassitude succeeded to the tumult I had before
endured, and I threw myself on the bed in my clothes,
endeavouring to seek a few moments of forgetfulness. But it was in
vain; I slept, indeed, but I was disturbed by the wildest dreams. I
thought I saw Elizabeth, in the bloom of health, walking in the
streets of Ingolstadt. Delighted and surprised, I embraced her, but
as I imprinted the first kiss on her lips, they became livid with the
hue of death; her features appeared to change, and I thought that I
held the corpse of my dead mother in my arms; a shroud enveloped
her form, and I saw the grave-worms crawling in the folds of the
flannel. I started from my sleep with horror; a cold dew covered
my forehead, my teeth chattered, and every limb became
convulsed; when, by the dim and yellow light of the moon, as it
forced its way through the window shutters, I beheld the wretch—
the miserable monster whom I had created. He held up the curtain
of the bed; and his eyes, if eyes they may be called, were fixed on
me. His jaws opened, and he muttered some inarticulate sounds,
while a grin wrinkled his cheeks. He might have spoken, but I did
not hear; one hand was stretched out, seemingly to detain me, but I

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

