The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

31 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 4
From this day natural philosophy, and particularly chemistry, in
the most comprehensive sense of the term, became nearly my sole
occupation. I read with ardour those works, so full of genius and
discrimination, which modern inquirers have written on these
subjects. I attended the lectures and cultivated the acquaintance of
the men of science of the university, and I found even in M.
Krempe a great deal of sound sense and real information,
combined, it is true, with a repulsive physiognomy and manners,
but not on that account the less valuable. In M. Waldman I found a
true friend. His gentleness was never tinged by dogmatism, and his
instructions were given with an air of frankness and good nature
that banished every idea of pedantry. In a thousand ways he
smoothed for me the path of knowledge and made the most
abstruse inquiries clear and facile to my apprehension. My
application was at first fluctuating and uncertain; it gained strength
as I proceeded and soon became so ardent and eager that the stars
often disappeared in the light of morning whilst I was yet engaged
in my laboratory.
As I applied so closely, it may be easily conceived that my
progress was rapid. My ardour was indeed the astonishment of the
students, and my proficiency that of the masters. Professor Krempe
often asked me, with a sly smile, how Cornelius Agrippa went on,
whilst M. Waldman expressed the most heartfelt exultation in my
progress. Two years passed in this manner, during which I paid no
visit to Geneva, but was engaged, heart and soul, in the pursuit of
some discoveries which I hoped to make. None but those who have
experienced them can conceive of the enticements of science. In
other studies you go as far as others have gone before you, and
there is nothing more to know; but in a scientific pursuit there is
continual food for discovery and wonder. A mind of moderate
capacity which closely pursues one study must infallibly arrive at
great proficiency in that study; and I, who continually sought the
attainment of one object of pursuit and was solely wrapped up in
this, improved so rapidly that at the end of two years I made some
discoveries in the improvement of some chemical instruments,
which procured me great esteem and admiration at the university.
When I had arrived at this point and had become as well
acquainted with the theory and practice of natural philosophy as
depended on the lessons of any of the professors at Ingolstadt, my
residence there being no longer conducive to my improvements, I
thought of returning to my friends and my native town, when an
incident happened that protracted my stay.
One of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted my
attention was the structure of the human frame, and, indeed, any
animal endued with life. Whence, I often asked myself, did the
principle of life proceed? It was a bold question, and one which
has ever been considered as a mystery; yet with how many things

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

