The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

41 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 6
Clerval then put the following letter into my hands. It was from
my own Elizabeth:
“My dearest Cousin,
“You have been ill, very ill, and even the constant letters of dear
kind Henry are not sufficient to reassure me on your account. You
are forbidden to write—to hold a pen; yet one word from you, dear
Victor, is necessary to calm our apprehensions. For a long time I
have thought that each post would bring this line, and my
persuasions have restrained my uncle from undertaking a journey
to Ingolstadt. I have prevented his encountering the inconveniences
and perhaps dangers of so long a journey, yet how often have I
regretted not being able to perform it myself! I figure to myself
that the task of attending on your sickbed has devolved on some
mercenary old nurse, who could never guess your wishes nor
minister to them with the care and affection of your poor cousin.
Yet that is over now: Clerval writes that indeed you are getting
better. I eagerly hope that you will confirm this intelligence soon in
your own handwriting.
“Get well—and return to us. You will find a happy, cheerful
home and friends who love you dearly. Your father’s health is
vigorous, and he asks but to see you, but to be assured that you are
well; and not a care will ever cloud his benevolent countenance.
How pleased you would be to remark the improvement of our
Ernest! He is now sixteen and full of activity and spirit. He is
desirous to be a true Swiss and to enter into foreign service, but we
cannot part with him, at least until his elder brother returns to us.
My uncle is not pleased with the idea of a military career in a
distant country, but Ernest never had your powers of application.
He looks upon study as an odious fetter; his time is spent in the
open air, climbing the hills or rowing on the lake. I fear that he will
become an idler unless we yield the point and permit him to enter
on the profession which he has selected.
“Little alteration, except the growth of our dear children, has
taken place since you left us. The blue lake and snow-clad
mountains—they never change; and I think our placid home and
our contented hearts are regulated by the same immutable laws.
My trifling occupations take up my time and amuse me, and I am
rewarded for any exertions by seeing none but happy, kind faces
around me. Since you left us, but one change has taken place in our
little household. Do you remember on what occasion Justine
Moritz entered our family? Probably you do not; I will relate her
history, therefore in a few words. Madame Moritz, her mother, was
a widow with four children, of whom Justine was the third. This
girl had always been the favourite of her father, but through a
strange perversity, her mother could not endure her, and after the
death of M. Moritz, treated her very ill. My aunt observed this, and

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

