The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

48 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

she again lived, it was only to weep and sigh. She told me, that that
same evening William had teased her to let him wear a very
valuable miniature that she possessed of your mother. This picture
is gone, and was doubtless the temptation which urged the
murderer to the deed. We have no trace of him at present, although
our exertions to discover him are unremitted; but they will not
restore my beloved William!
“Come, dearest Victor; you alone can console Elizabeth. She
weeps continually, and accuses herself unjustly as the cause of his
death; her words pierce my heart. We are all unhappy; but will not
that be an additional motive for you, my son, to return and be our
comforter? Your dear mother! Alas, Victor! I now say, Thank God
she did not live to witness the cruel, miserable death of her
youngest darling!
“Come, Victor; not brooding thoughts of vengeance against the
assassin, but with feelings of peace and gentleness, that will heal,
instead of festering, the wounds of our minds. Enter the house of
mourning, my friend, but with kindness and affection for those
who love you, and not with hatred for your enemies.
“Your affectionate and afflicted father,
“Alphonse Frankenstein.
“Geneva, May 12th, 17—.”
Clerval, who had watched my countenance as I read this letter,
was surprised to observe the despair that succeeded the joy I at first
expressed on receiving new from my friends. I threw the letter on
the table, and covered my face with my hands.
“My dear Frankenstein,” exclaimed Henry, when he perceived
me weep with bitterness, “are you always to be unhappy? My dear
friend, what has happened?”
I motioned him to take up the letter, while I walked up and down
the room in the extremest agitation. Tears also gushed from the
eyes of Clerval, as he read the account of my misfortune.
“I can offer you no consolation, my friend,” said he; “your
disaster is irreparable. What do you intend to do?”
“To go instantly to Geneva: come with me, Henry, to order the
horses.”
During our walk, Clerval endeavoured to say a few words of
consolation; he could only express his heartfelt sympathy. “Poor
William!” said he, “dear lovely child, he now sleeps with his angel
mother! Who that had seen him bright and joyous in his young
beauty, but must weep over his untimely loss! To die so miserably;
to feel the murderer’s grasp! How much more a murdered that
could destroy radiant innocence! Poor little fellow! one only
consolation have we; his friends mourn and weep, but he is at rest.
The pang is over, his sufferings are at an end for ever. A sod covers
his gentle form, and he knows no pain. He can no longer be a
subject for pity; we must reserve that for his miserable survivors.”

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

