The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

43 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

extremely pretty; as I mentioned before, her mien and her
expression continually remind me of my dear aunt.
“I must say also a few words to you, my dear cousin, of little
darling William. I wish you could see him; he is very tall of his
age, with sweet laughing blue eyes, dark eyelashes, and curling
hair. When he smiles, two little dimples appear on each cheek,
which are rosy with health. He has already had one or two little
wives, but Louisa Biron is his favourite, a pretty little girl of five
years of age.
“Now, dear Victor, I dare say you wish to be indulged in a little
gossip concerning the good people of Geneva. The pretty Miss
Mansfield has already received the congratulatory visits on her
approaching marriage with a young Englishman, John Melbourne,
Esq. Her ugly sister, Manon, married M. Duvillard, the rich banker,
last autumn. Your favourite schoolfellow, Louis Manoir, has
suffered several misfortunes since the departure of Clerval from
Geneva. But he has already recovered his spirits, and is reported to
be on the point of marrying a lively pretty Frenchwoman, Madame
Tavernier. She is a widow, and much older than Manoir; but she is
very much admired, and a favourite with everybody.
“I have written myself into better spirits, dear cousin; but my
anxiety returns upon me as I conclude. Write, dearest Victor,—one
line—one word will be a blessing to us. Ten thousand thanks to
Henry for his kindness, his affection, and his many letters; we are
sincerely grateful. Adieu! my cousin; take care of yourself; and, I
entreat you, write!
“Elizabeth Lavenza.
“Geneva, March 18th, 17—.”
“Dear, dear Elizabeth!” I exclaimed, when I had read her letter:
“I will write instantly and relieve them from the anxiety they must
feel.” I wrote, and this exertion greatly fatigued me; but my
convalescence had commenced, and proceeded regularly. In
another fortnight I was able to leave my chamber.
One of my first duties on my recovery was to introduce Clerval
to the several professors of the university. In doing this, I
underwent a kind of rough usage, ill befitting the wounds that my
mind had sustained. Ever since the fatal night, the end of my
labours, and the beginning of my misfortunes, I had conceived a
violent antipathy even to the name of natural philosophy. When I
was otherwise quite restored to health, the sight of a chemical
instrument would renew all the agony of my nervous symptoms.
Henry saw this, and had removed all my apparatus from my view.
He had also changed my apartment; for he perceived that I had
acquired a dislike for the room which had previously been my
laboratory. But these cares of Clerval were made of no avail when
I visited the professors. M. Waldman inflicted torture when he
praised, with kindness and warmth, the astonishing progress I had
made in the sciences. He soon perceived that I disliked the subject;

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

