The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

42 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

when Justine was twelve years of age, prevailed on her mother to
allow her to live at our house. The republican institutions of our
country have produced simpler and happier manners than those
which prevail in the great monarchies that surround it. Hence there
is less distinction between the several classes of its inhabitants; and
the lower orders, being neither so poor nor so despised, their
manners are more refined and moral. A servant in Geneva does not
mean the same thing as a servant in France and England. Justine,
thus received in our family, learned the duties of a servant, a
condition which, in our fortunate country, does not include the idea
of ignorance and a sacrifice of the dignity of a human being.
“Justine, you may remember, was a great favourite of yours; and
I recollect you once remarked that if you were in an ill humour,
one glance from Justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that
Ariosto gives concerning the beauty of Angelica—she looked so
frank-hearted and happy. My aunt conceived a great attachment for
her, by which she was induced to give her an education superior to
that which she had at first intended. This benefit was fully repaid;
Justine was the most grateful little creature in the world: I do not
mean that she made any professions I never heard one pass her
lips, but you could see by her eyes that she almost adored her
protectress. Although her disposition was gay and in many respects
inconsiderate, yet she paid the greatest attention to every gesture of
my aunt. She thought her the model of all excellence and
endeavoured to imitate her phraseology and manners, so that even
now she often reminds me of her.
“When my dearest aunt died every one was too much occupied
in their own grief to notice poor Justine, who had attended her
during her illness with the most anxious affection. Poor Justine
was very ill; but other trials were reserved for her.
“One by one, her brothers and sister died; and her mother, with
the exception of her neglected daughter, was left childless. The
conscience of the woman was troubled; she began to think that the
deaths of her favourites was a judgement from heaven to chastise
her partiality. She was a Roman Catholic; and I believe her
confessor confirmed the idea which she had conceived.
Accordingly, a few months after your departure for Ingolstadt,
Justine was called home by her repentant mother. Poor girl! She
wept when she quitted our house; she was much altered since the
death of my aunt; grief had given softness and a winning mildness
to her manners, which had before been remarkable for vivacity.
Nor was her residence at her mother’s house of a nature to restore
her gaiety. The poor woman was very vacillating in her repentance.
She sometimes begged Justine to forgive her unkindness, but much
oftener accused her of having caused the deaths of her brothers and
sister. Perpetual fretting at length threw Madame Moritz into a
decline, which at first increased her irritability, but she is now at
peace for ever. She died on the first approach of cold weather, at
the beginning of this last winter. Justine has just returned to us; and
I assure you I love her tenderly. She is very clever and gentle, and

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

