The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

45 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

well repaid my labours. Their melancholy is soothing, and their joy
elevating, to a degree I never experienced in studying the authors
of any other country. When you read their writings, life appears to
consist in a warm sun and a garden of roses,—in the smiles and
frowns of a fair enemy, and the fire that consumes your own heart.
How different from the manly and heroical poetry of Greece and
Rome!
Summer passed away in these occupations, and my return to
Geneva was fixed for the latter end of autumn; but being delayed
by several accidents, winter and snow arrived, the roads were
deemed impassable, and my journey was retarded until the ensuing
spring. I felt this delay very bitterly; for I longed to see my native
town and my beloved friends. My return had only been delayed so
long, from an unwillingness to leave Clerval in a strange place,
before he had become acquainted with any of its inhabitants. The
winter, however, was spent cheerfully; and although the spring was
uncommonly late, when it came its beauty compensated for its
dilatoriness.
The month of May had already commenced, and I expected the
letter daily which was to fix the date of my departure, when Henry
proposed a pedestrian tour in the environs of Ingolstadt, that I
might bid a personal farewell to the country I had so long
inhabited. I acceded with pleasure to this proposition: I was fond of
exercise, and Clerval had always been my favourite companion in
the ramble of this nature that I had taken among the scenes of my
native country.
We passed a fortnight in these perambulations: my health and
spirits had long been restored, and they gained additional strength
from the salubrious air I breathed, the natural incidents of our
progress, and the conversation of my friend. Study had before
secluded me from the intercourse of my fellow-creatures, and
rendered me unsocial; but Clerval called forth the better feelings of
my heart; he again taught me to love the aspect of nature, and the
cheerful faces of children. Excellent friend! how sincerely you did
love me, and endeavour to elevate my mind until it was on a level
with your own. A selfish pursuit had cramped and narrowed me,
until your gentleness and affection warmed and opened my senses;
I became the same happy creature who, a few years ago, loved and
beloved by all, had no sorrow or care. When happy, inanimate
nature had the power of bestowing on me the most delightful
sensations. A serene sky and verdant fields filled me with ecstasy.
The present season was indeed divine; the flowers of spring
bloomed in the hedges, while those of summer were already in
bud. I was undisturbed by thoughts which during the preceding
year had pressed upon me, notwithstanding my endeavours to
throw them off, with an invincible burden.
Henry rejoiced in my gaiety, and sincerely sympathised in my
feelings: he exerted himself to amuse me, while he expressed the
sensations that filled his soul. The resources of his mind on this
occasion were truly astonishing: his conversation was full of

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

