The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

52 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

mortal agony crept over my frame. Before, I had only imagined the
wretchedness of my desolated home; the reality came on me as a
new, and a not less terrible, disaster. I tried to calm Ernest; I
enquired more minutely concerning my father, and here I named
my cousin.
“She most of all,” said Ernest, “requires consolation; she
accused herself of having caused the death of my brother, and that
made her very wretched. But since the murderer has been
discovered—”
“The murderer discovered! Good God! how can that be? who
could attempt to pursue him? It is impossible; one might as well
try to overtake the winds, or confine a mountain-stream with a
straw. I saw him too; he was free last night!”
“I do not know what you mean,” replied my brother, in accents
of wonder, “but to us the discovery we have made completes our
misery. No one would believe it at first; and even now Elizabeth
will not be convinced, notwithstanding all the evidence. Indeed,
who would credit that Justine Moritz, who was so amiable, and
fond of all the family, could suddenly become so capable of so
frightful, so appalling a crime?”
“Justine Moritz! Poor, poor girl, is she the accused? But it is
wrongfully; every one knows that; no one believes it, surely,
Ernest?”
“No one did at first; but several circumstances came out, that
have almost forced conviction upon us; and her own behaviour has
been so confused, as to add to the evidence of facts a weight that, I
fear, leaves no hope for doubt. But she will be tried today, and you
will then hear all.”
He then related that, the morning on which the murder of poor
William had been discovered, Justine had been taken ill, and
confined to her bed for several days. During this interval, one of
the servants, happening to examine the apparel she had worn on
the night of the murder, had discovered in her pocket the picture of
my mother, which had been judged to be the temptation of the
murderer. The servant instantly showed it to one of the others,
who, without saying a word to any of the family, went to a
magistrate; and, upon their deposition, Justine was apprehended.
On being charged with the fact, the poor girl confirmed the
suspicion in a great measure by her extreme confusion of manner.
This was a strange tale, but it did not shake my faith; and I
replied earnestly, “You are all mistaken; I know the murderer.
Justine, poor, good Justine, is innocent.”
At that instant my father entered. I saw unhappiness deeply
impressed on his countenance, but he endeavoured to welcome me
cheerfully; and, after we had exchanged our mournful greeting,
would have introduced some other topic than that of our disaster,
had not Ernest exclaimed, “Good God, papa! Victor says that he
knows who was the murderer of poor William.”
“We do also, unfortunately,” replied my father, “for indeed I had

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

