The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

50 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

voyage I saw the lightning playing on the summit of Mont Blanc in
the most beautiful figures. The storm appeared to approach rapidly,
and, on landing, I ascended a low hill, that I might observe its
progress. It advanced; the heavens were clouded, and I soon felt
the rain coming slowly in large drops, but its violence quickly
increased.
I quitted my seat, and walked on, although the darkness and
storm increased every minute, and the thunder burst with a terrific
crash over my head. It was echoed from Salêve, the Juras, and the
Alps of Savoy; vivid flashes of lightning dazzled my eyes,
illuminating the lake, making it appear like a vast sheet of fire;
then for an instant every thing seemed of a pitchy darkness, until
the eye recovered itself from the preceding flash. The storm, as is
often the case in Switzerland, appeared at once in various parts of
the heavens. The most violent storm hung exactly north of the
town, over the part of the lake which lies between the promontory
of Belrive and the village of Copêt. Another storm enlightened
Jura with faint flashes; and another darkened and sometimes
disclosed the Môle, a peaked mountain to the east of the lake.
While I watched the tempest, so beautiful yet terrific, I
wandered on with a hasty step. This noble war in the sky elevated
my spirits; I clasped my hands, and exclaimed aloud, “William,
dear angel! this is thy funeral, this thy dirge!” As I said these
words, I perceived in the gloom a figure which stole from behind a
clump of trees near me; I stood fixed, gazing intently: I could not
be mistaken. A flash of lightning illuminated the object, and
discovered its shape plainly to me; its gigantic stature, and the
deformity of its aspect more hideous than belongs to humanity,
instantly informed me that it was the wretch, the filthy dæmon, to
whom I had given life. What did he there? Could he be (I
shuddered at the conception) the murderer of my brother? No
sooner did that idea cross my imagination, than I became
convinced of its truth; my teeth chattered, and I was forced to lean
against a tree for support. The figure passed me quickly, and I lost
it in the gloom. Nothing in human shape could have destroyed the
fair child. He was the murderer! I could not doubt it. The mere
presence of the idea was an irresistible proof of the fact. I thought
of pursuing the devil; but it would have been in vain, for another
flash discovered him to me hanging among the rocks of the nearly
perpendicular ascent of Mont Salêve, a hill that bounds Plainpalais
on the south. He soon reached the summit, and disappeared.
I remained motionless. The thunder ceased; but the rain still
continued, and the scene was enveloped in an impenetrable
darkness. I revolved in my mind the events which I had until now
sought to forget: the whole train of my progress toward the
creation; the appearance of the works of my own hands at my
bedside; its departure. Two years had now nearly elapsed since the
night on which he first received life; and was this his first crime?
Alas! I had turned loose into the world a depraved wretch, whose
delight was in carnage and misery; had he not murdered my

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

