The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

62 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

each other’s blood. Yet I am certainly unjust. Everybody believed
that poor girl to be guilty; and if she could have committed the
crime for which she suffered, assuredly she would have been the
most depraved of human creatures. For the sake of a few jewels, to
have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend, a child whom
she had nursed from its birth, and appeared to love as if it had been
her own! I could not consent to the death of any human being, but
certainly I should have thought such a creature unfit to remain in
the society of men. But she was innocent. I know, I feel she was
innocent; you are of the same opinion, and that confirms me. Alas!
Victor, when falsehood can look so like the truth, who can assure
themselves of certain happiness? I feel as if I were walking on the
edge of a precipice, towards which thousands are crowding and
endeavouring to plunge me into the abyss. William and Justine
were assassinated, and the murderer escapes; he walks about the
world free, and perhaps respected. But even if I were condemned
to suffer on the scaffold for the same crimes, I would not change
places with such a wretch.”
I listened to this discourse with the extremest agony. I, not in
deed, but in effect, was the true murderer. Elizabeth read my
anguish in my countenance, and kindly taking my hand, said, “My
dearest friend, you must calm yourself. These events have affected
me, God knows how deeply; but I am not so wretched as you are.
There is an expression of despair, and sometimes of revenge, in
your countenance that makes me tremble. Dear Victor, banish these
dark passions. Remember the friends around you, who centre all
their hopes in you. Have we lost the power of rendering you
happy? Ah! While we love, while we are true to each other, here in
this land of peace and beauty, your native country, we may reap
every tranquil blessing—what can disturb our peace?”
And could not such words from her whom I fondly prized before
every other gift of fortune suffice to chase away the fiend that
lurked in my heart? Even as she spoke I drew near to her, as if in
terror, lest at that very moment the destroyer had been near to rob
me of her.
Thus not the tenderness of friendship, nor the beauty of earth,
nor of heaven, could redeem my soul from woe; the very accents
of love were ineffectual. I was encompassed by a cloud which no
beneficial influence could penetrate. The wounded deer dragging
its fainting limbs to some untrodden brake, there to gaze upon the
arrow which had pierced it, and to die, was but a type of me.
Sometimes I could cope with the sullen despair that
overwhelmed me, but sometimes the whirlwind passions of my
soul drove me to seek, by bodily exercise and by change of place,
some relief from my intolerable sensations. It was during an access
of this kind that I suddenly left my home, and bending my steps
towards the near Alpine valleys, sought in the magnificence, the
eternity of such scenes, to forget myself and my ephemeral,
because human, sorrows. My wanderings were directed towards
the valley of Chamounix. I had visited it frequently during my

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

