The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

61 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

carried by the wind; and sometimes, after rowing into the middle
of the lake, I left the boat to pursue its own course and gave way to
my own miserable reflections. I was often tempted, when all was at
peace around me, and I the only unquiet thing that wandered
restless in a scene so beautiful and heavenly—if I except some bat,
or the frogs, whose harsh and interrupted croaking was heard only
when I approached the shore—often, I say, I was tempted to
plunge into the silent lake, that the waters might close over me and
my calamities for ever. But I was restrained, when I thought of the
heroic and suffering Elizabeth, whom I tenderly loved, and whose
existence was bound up in mine. I thought also of my father and
surviving brother; should I by my base desertion leave them
exposed and unprotected to the malice of the fiend whom I had let
loose among them?
At these moments I wept bitterly and wished that peace would
revisit my mind only that I might afford them consolation and
happiness. But that could not be. Remorse extinguished every
hope. I had been the author of unalterable evils, and I lived in daily
fear lest the monster whom I had created should perpetrate some
new wickedness. I had an obscure feeling that all was not over and
that he would still commit some signal crime, which by its
enormity should almost efface the recollection of the past. There
was always scope for fear so long as anything I loved remained
behind. My abhorrence of this fiend cannot be conceived. When I
thought of him I gnashed my teeth, my eyes became inflamed, and
I ardently wished to extinguish that life which I had so
thoughtlessly bestowed. When I reflected on his crimes and
malice, my hatred and revenge burst all bounds of moderation. I
would have made a pilgrimage to the highest peak of the Andes,
could I, when there, have precipitated him to their base. I wished to
see him again, that I might wreak the utmost extent of abhorrence
on his head and avenge the deaths of William and Justine.
Our house was the house of mourning. My father’s health was
deeply shaken by the horror of the recent events. Elizabeth was sad
and desponding; she no longer took delight in her ordinary
occupations; all pleasure seemed to her sacrilege toward the dead;
eternal woe and tears she then thought was the just tribute she
should pay to innocence so blasted and destroyed. She was no
longer that happy creature who in earlier youth wandered with me
on the banks of the lake and talked with ecstasy of our future
prospects. The first of those sorrows which are sent to wean us
from the earth had visited her, and its dimming influence quenched
her dearest smiles.
“When I reflect, my dear cousin,” said she, “on the miserable
death of Justine Moritz, I no longer see the world and its works as
they before appeared to me. Before, I looked upon the accounts of
vice and injustice that I read in books or heard from others as tales
of ancient days or imaginary evils; at least they were remote and
more familiar to reason than to the imagination; but now misery
has come home, and men appear to me as monsters thirsting for

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

