The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

65 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 10
I spent the following day roaming through the valley. I stood
beside the sources of the Arveiron, which take their rise in a
glacier, that with slow pace is advancing down from the summit of
the hills to barricade the valley. The abrupt sides of vast mountains
were before me; the icy wall of the glacier overhung me; a few
shattered pines were scattered around; and the solemn silence of
this glorious presence-chamber of imperial Nature was broken only
by the brawling waves or the fall of some vast fragment, the
thunder sound of the avalanche or the cracking, reverberated along
the mountains, of the accumulated ice, which, through the silent
working of immutable laws, was ever and anon rent and torn, as if
it had been but a plaything in their hands. These sublime and
magnificent scenes afforded me the greatest consolation that I was
capable of receiving. They elevated me from all littleness of
feeling, and although they did not remove my grief, they subdued
and tranquillised it. In some degree, also, they diverted my mind
from the thoughts over which it had brooded for the last month. I
retired to rest at night; my slumbers, as it were, waited on and
ministered to by the assemblance of grand shapes which I had
contemplated during the day. They congregated round me; the
unstained snowy mountain-top, the glittering pinnacle, the pine
woods, and ragged bare ravine, the eagle, soaring amidst the
clouds—they all gathered round me and bade me be at peace.
Where had they fled when the next morning I awoke? All of
soul-inspiriting fled with sleep, and dark melancholy clouded
every thought. The rain was pouring in torrents, and thick mists hid
the summits of the mountains, so that I even saw not the faces of
those mighty friends. Still I would penetrate their misty veil and
seek them in their cloudy retreats. What were rain and storm to
me? My mule was brought to the door, and I resolved to ascend to
the summit of Montanvert. I remembered the effect that the view
of the tremendous and ever-moving glacier had produced upon my
mind when I first saw it. It had then filled me with a sublime
ecstasy that gave wings to the soul and allowed it to soar from the
obscure world to light and joy. The sight of the awful and majestic
in nature had indeed always the effect of solemnising my mind and
causing me to forget the passing cares of life. I determined to go
without a guide, for I was well acquainted with the path, and the
presence of another would destroy the solitary grandeur of the
scene.
The ascent is precipitous, but the path is cut into continual and
short windings, which enable you to surmount the perpendicularity
of the mountain. It is a scene terrifically desolate. In a thousand
spots the traces of the winter avalanche may be perceived, where
trees lie broken and strewed on the ground, some entirely
destroyed, others bent, leaning upon the jutting rocks of the
mountain or transversely upon other trees. The path, as you ascend

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

