The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

78 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

generally found that her countenance and tone were more cheerful
after having listened to the exhortations of her father. It was not
thus with Felix. He was always the saddest of the group, and even
to my unpractised senses, he appeared to have suffered more
deeply than his friends. But if his countenance was more
sorrowful, his voice was more cheerful than that of his sister,
especially when he addressed the old man.
“I could mention innumerable instances which, although slight,
marked the dispositions of these amiable cottagers. In the midst of
poverty and want, Felix carried with pleasure to his sister the first
little white flower that peeped out from beneath the snowy ground.
Early in the morning, before she had risen, he cleared away the
snow that obstructed her path to the milk-house, drew water from
the well, and brought the wood from the outhouse, where, to his
perpetual astonishment, he found his store always replenished by
an invisible hand. In the day, I believe, he worked sometimes for a
neighbouring farmer, because he often went forth and did not
return until dinner, yet brought no wood with him. At other times
he worked in the garden, but as there was little to do in the frosty
season, he read to the old man and Agatha.
“This reading had puzzled me extremely at first, but by degrees I
discovered that he uttered many of the same sounds when he read
as when he talked. I conjectured, therefore, that he found on the
paper signs for speech which he understood, and I ardently longed
to comprehend these also; but how was that possible when I did
not even understand the sounds for which they stood as signs? I
improved, however, sensibly in this science, but not sufficiently to
follow up any kind of conversation, although I applied my whole
mind to the endeavour, for I easily perceived that, although I
eagerly longed to discover myself to the cottagers, I ought not to
make the attempt until I had first become master of their language,
which knowledge might enable me to make them overlook the
deformity of my figure, for with this also the contrast perpetually
presented to my eyes had made me acquainted.
“I had admired the perfect forms of my cottagers—their grace,
beauty, and delicate complexions; but how was I terrified when I
viewed myself in a transparent pool! At first I started back, unable
to believe that it was indeed I who was reflected in the mirror; and
when I became fully convinced that I was in reality the monster
that I am, I was filled with the bitterest sensations of despondence
and mortification. Alas! I did not yet entirely know the fatal effects
of this miserable deformity.
“As the sun became warmer and the light of day longer, the
snow vanished, and I beheld the bare trees and the black earth.
From this time Felix was more employed, and the heart-moving
indications of impending famine disappeared. Their food, as I
afterwards found, was coarse, but it was wholesome; and they
procured a sufficiency of it. Several new kinds of plants sprang up
in the garden, which they dressed; and these signs of comfort
increased daily as the season advanced.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

