The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

79 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

“The old man, leaning on his son, walked each day at noon,
when it did not rain, as I found it was called when the heavens
poured forth its waters. This frequently took place, but a high wind
quickly dried the earth, and the season became far more pleasant
than it had been.
“My mode of life in my hovel was uniform. During the morning
I attended the motions of the cottagers, and when they were
dispersed in various occupations, I slept; the remainder of the day
was spent in observing my friends. When they had retired to rest, if
there was any moon or the night was star-light, I went into the
woods and collected my own food and fuel for the cottage. When I
returned, as often as it was necessary, I cleared their path from the
snow and performed those offices that I had seen done by Felix. I
afterwards found that these labours, performed by an invisible
hand, greatly astonished them; and once or twice I heard them, on
these occasions, utter the words good spirit, wonderful; but I did
not then understand the signification of these terms.
“My thoughts now became more active, and I longed to discover
the motives and feelings of these lovely creatures; I was inquisitive
to know why Felix appeared so miserable and Agatha so sad. I
thought (foolish wretch!) that it might be in my power to restore
happiness to these deserving people. When I slept or was absent,
the forms of the venerable blind father, the gentle Agatha, and the
excellent Felix flitted before me. I looked upon them as superior
beings who would be the arbiters of my future destiny. I formed in
my imagination a thousand pictures of presenting myself to them,
and their reception of me. I imagined that they would be disgusted,
until, by my gentle demeanour and conciliating words, I should
first win their favour and afterwards their love.
“These thoughts exhilarated me and led me to apply with fresh
ardour to the acquiring the art of language. My organs were indeed
harsh, but supple; and although my voice was very unlike the soft
music of their tones, yet I pronounced such words as I understood
with tolerable ease. It was as the ass and the lap-dog; yet surely the
gentle ass whose intentions were affectionate, although his
manners were rude, deserved better treatment than blows and
execration.
“The pleasant showers and genial warmth of spring greatly
altered the aspect of the earth. Men who before this change seemed
to have been hid in caves dispersed themselves and were employed
in various arts of cultivation. The birds sang in more cheerful
notes, and the leaves began to bud forth on the trees. Happy, happy
earth! Fit habitation for gods, which, so short a time before, was
bleak, damp, and unwholesome. My spirits were elevated by the
enchanting appearance of nature; the past was blotted from my
memory, the present was tranquil, and the future gilded by bright
rays of hope and anticipations of joy.”

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

