The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

70 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 11
“It is with considerable difficulty that I remember the original
era of my being; all the events of that period appear confused and
indistinct. A strange multiplicity of sensations seized me, and I
saw, felt, heard, and smelt at the same time; and it was, indeed, a
long time before I learned to distinguish between the operations of
my various senses. By degrees, I remember, a stronger light
pressed upon my nerves, so that I was obliged to shut my eyes.
Darkness then came over me and troubled me, but hardly had I felt
this when, by opening my eyes, as I now suppose, the light poured
in upon me again. I walked and, I believe, descended, but I
presently found a great alteration in my sensations. Before, dark
and opaque bodies had surrounded me, impervious to my touch or
sight; but I now found that I could wander on at liberty, with no
obstacles which I could not either surmount or avoid. The light
became more and more oppressive to me, and the heat wearying
me as I walked, I sought a place where I could receive shade. This
was the forest near Ingolstadt; and here I lay by the side of a brook
resting from my fatigue, until I felt tormented by hunger and thirst.
This roused me from my nearly dormant state, and I ate some
berries which I found hanging on the trees or lying on the ground. I
slaked my thirst at the brook, and then lying down, was overcome
by sleep.
“It was dark when I awoke; I felt cold also, and half frightened,
as it were, instinctively, finding myself so desolate. Before I had
quitted your apartment, on a sensation of cold, I had covered
myself with some clothes, but these were insufficient to secure me
from the dews of night. I was a poor, helpless, miserable wretch; I
knew, and could distinguish, nothing; but feeling pain invade me
on all sides, I sat down and wept.
“Soon a gentle light stole over the heavens and gave me a
sensation of pleasure. I started up and beheld a radiant form rise
from among the trees. [The moon] I gazed with a kind of wonder.
It moved slowly, but it enlightened my path, and I again went out
in search of berries. I was still cold when under one of the trees I
found a huge cloak, with which I covered myself, and sat down
upon the ground. No distinct ideas occupied my mind; all was
confused. I felt light, and hunger, and thirst, and darkness;
innumerable sounds rang in my ears, and on all sides various
scents saluted me; the only object that I could distinguish was the
bright moon, and I fixed my eyes on that with pleasure.
“Several changes of day and night passed, and the orb of night
had greatly lessened, when I began to distinguish my sensations
from each other. I gradually saw plainly the clear stream that
supplied me with drink and the trees that shaded me with their
foliage. I was delighted when I first discovered that a pleasant
sound, which often saluted my ears, proceeded from the throats of
the little winged animals who had often intercepted the light from

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

