The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

74 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

attitude. The young girl was occupied in arranging the cottage; but
presently she took something out of a drawer, which employed her
hands, and she sat down beside the old man, who, taking up an
instrument, began to play and to produce sounds sweeter than the
voice of the thrush or the nightingale. It was a lovely sight, even to
me, poor wretch who had never beheld aught beautiful before. The
silver hair and benevolent countenance of the aged cottager won
my reverence, while the gentle manners of the girl enticed my
love. He played a sweet mournful air which I perceived drew tears
from the eyes of his amiable companion, of which the old man
took no notice, until she sobbed audibly; he then pronounced a few
sounds, and the fair creature, leaving her work, knelt at his feet. He
raised her and smiled with such kindness and affection that I felt
sensations of a peculiar and overpowering nature; they were a
mixture of pain and pleasure, such as I had never before
experienced, either from hunger or cold, warmth or food; and I
withdrew from the window, unable to bear these emotions.
“Soon after this the young man returned, bearing on his
shoulders a load of wood. The girl met him at the door, helped to
relieve him of his burden, and taking some of the fuel into the
cottage, placed it on the fire; then she and the youth went apart into
a nook of the cottage, and he showed her a large loaf and a piece of
cheese. She seemed pleased and went into the garden for some
roots and plants, which she placed in water, and then upon the fire.
She afterwards continued her work, whilst the young man went
into the garden and appeared busily employed in digging and
pulling up roots. After he had been employed thus about an hour,
the young woman joined him and they entered the cottage together.
“The old man had, in the meantime, been pensive, but on the
appearance of his companions he assumed a more cheerful air, and
they sat down to eat. The meal was quickly dispatched. The young
woman was again occupied in arranging the cottage, the old man
walked before the cottage in the sun for a few minutes, leaning on
the arm of the youth. Nothing could exceed in beauty the contrast
between these two excellent creatures. One was old, with silver
hairs and a countenance beaming with benevolence and love; the
younger was slight and graceful in his figure, and his features were
moulded with the finest symmetry, yet his eyes and attitude
expressed the utmost sadness and despondency. The old man
returned to the cottage, and the youth, with tools different from
those he had used in the morning, directed his steps across the
fields.
“Night quickly shut in, but to my extreme wonder, I found that
the cottagers had a means of prolonging light by the use of tapers,
and was delighted to find that the setting of the sun did not put an
end to the pleasure I experienced in watching my human
neighbours. In the evening the young girl and her companion were
employed in various occupations which I did not understand; and
the old man again took up the instrument which produced the
divine sounds that had enchanted me in the morning. So soon as he

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

