The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

76 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 12
“I lay on my straw, but I could not sleep. I thought of the
occurrences of the day. What chiefly struck me was the gentle
manners of these people, and I longed to join them, but dared not. I
remembered too well the treatment I had suffered the night before
from the barbarous villagers, and resolved, whatever course of
conduct I might hereafter think it right to pursue, that for the
present I would remain quietly in my hovel, watching and
endeavouring to discover the motives which influenced their
actions.
“The cottagers arose the next morning before the sun. The
young woman arranged the cottage and prepared the food, and the
youth departed after the first meal.
“This day was passed in the same routine as that which preceded
it. The young man was constantly employed out of doors, and the
girl in various laborious occupations within. The old man, whom I
soon perceived to be blind, employed his leisure hours on his
instrument or in contemplation. Nothing could exceed the love and
respect which the younger cottagers exhibited towards their
venerable companion. They performed towards him every little
office of affection and duty with gentleness, and he rewarded them
by his benevolent smiles.
“They were not entirely happy. The young man and his
companion often went apart and appeared to weep. I saw no cause
for their unhappiness, but I was deeply affected by it. If such
lovely creatures were miserable, it was less strange that I, an
imperfect and solitary being, should be wretched. Yet why were
these gentle beings unhappy? They possessed a delightful house
(for such it was in my eyes) and every luxury; they had a fire to
warm them when chill and delicious viands when hungry; they
were dressed in excellent clothes; and, still more, they enjoyed one
another’s company and speech, interchanging each day looks of
affection and kindness. What did their tears imply? Did they really
express pain? I was at first unable to solve these questions, but
perpetual attention and time explained to me many appearances
which were at first enigmatic.
“A considerable period elapsed before I discovered one of the
causes of the uneasiness of this amiable family: it was poverty, and
they suffered that evil in a very distressing degree. Their
nourishment consisted entirely of the vegetables of their garden
and the milk of one cow, which gave very little during the winter,
when its masters could scarcely procure food to support it. They
often, I believe, suffered the pangs of hunger very poignantly,
especially the two younger cottagers, for several times they placed
food before the old man when they reserved none for themselves.
“This trait of kindness moved me sensibly. I had been
accustomed, during the night, to steal a part of their store for my
own consumption, but when I found that in doing this I inflicted

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

