The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

89 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

was I? Whence did I come? What was my destination? These
questions continually recurred, but I was unable to solve them.
“The volume of Plutarch’s Lives which I possessed contained
the histories of the first founders of the ancient republics. This
book had a far different effect upon me from the Sorrows of
Werter. I learned from Werter’s imaginations despondency and
gloom, but Plutarch taught me high thoughts; he elevated me
above the wretched sphere of my own reflections, to admire and
love the heroes of past ages. Many things I read surpassed my
understanding and experience. I had a very confused knowledge of
kingdoms, wide extents of country, mighty rivers, and boundless
seas. But I was perfectly unacquainted with towns and large
assemblages of men. The cottage of my protectors had been the
only school in which I had studied human nature, but this book
developed new and mightier scenes of action. I read of men
concerned in public affairs, governing or massacring their species.
I felt the greatest ardour for virtue rise within me, and abhorrence
for vice, as far as I understood the signification of those terms,
relative as they were, as I applied them, to pleasure and pain alone.
Induced by these feelings, I was of course led to admire peaceable
lawgivers, Numa, Solon, and Lycurgus, in preference to Romulus
and Theseus. The patriarchal lives of my protectors caused these
impressions to take a firm hold on my mind; perhaps, if my first
introduction to humanity had been made by a young soldier,
burning for glory and slaughter, I should have been imbued with
different sensations.
“But Paradise Lost excited different and far deeper emotions. I
read it, as I had read the other volumes which had fallen into my
hands, as a true history. It moved every feeling of wonder and awe
that the picture of an omnipotent God warring with his creatures
was capable of exciting. I often referred the several situations, as
their similarity struck me, to my own. Like Adam, I was apparently
united by no link to any other being in existence; but his state was
far different from mine in every other respect. He had come forth
from the hands of God a perfect creature, happy and prosperous,
guarded by the especial care of his Creator; he was allowed to
converse with and acquire knowledge from beings of a superior
nature, but I was wretched, helpless, and alone. Many times I
considered Satan as the fitter emblem of my condition, for often,
like him, when I viewed the bliss of my protectors, the bitter gall
of envy rose within me.
“Another circumstance strengthened and confirmed these
feelings. Soon after my arrival in the hovel I discovered some
papers in the pocket of the dress which I had taken from your
laboratory. At first I had neglected them, but now that I was able to
decipher the characters in which they were written, I began to
study them with diligence. It was your journal of the four months
that preceded my creation. You minutely described in these papers
every step you took in the progress of your work; this history was
mingled with accounts of domestic occurrences. You doubtless

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

