The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

83 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

and heard of none like me. Was I, then, a monster, a blot upon the
earth, from which all men fled and whom all men disowned?
“I cannot describe to you the agony that these reflections
inflicted upon me; I tried to dispel them, but sorrow only increased
with knowledge. Oh, that I had for ever remained in my native
wood, nor known nor felt beyond the sensations of hunger, thirst,
and heat!
“Of what a strange nature is knowledge! It clings to the mind
when it has once seized on it like a lichen on the rock. I wished
sometimes to shake off all thought and feeling, but I learned that
there was but one means to overcome the sensation of pain, and
that was death—a state which I feared yet did not understand. I
admired virtue and good feelings and loved the gentle manners and
amiable qualities of my cottagers, but I was shut out from
intercourse with them, except through means which I obtained by
stealth, when I was unseen and unknown, and which rather
increased than satisfied the desire I had of becoming one among
my fellows. The gentle words of Agatha and the animated smiles
of the charming Arabian were not for me. The mild exhortations of
the old man and the lively conversation of the loved Felix were not
for me. Miserable, unhappy wretch!
“Other lessons were impressed upon me even more deeply. I
heard of the difference of sexes, and the birth and growth of
children, how the father doted on the smiles of the infant, and the
lively sallies of the older child, how all the life and cares of the
mother were wrapped up in the precious charge, how the mind of
youth expanded and gained knowledge, of brother, sister, and all
the various relationships which bind one human being to another in
mutual bonds.
“But where were my friends and relations? No father had
watched my infant days, no mother had blessed me with smiles and
caresses; or if they had, all my past life was now a blot, a blind
vacancy in which I distinguished nothing. From my earliest
remembrance I had been as I then was in height and proportion. I
had never yet seen a being resembling me or who claimed any
intercourse with me. What was I? The question again recurred, to
be answered only with groans.
“I will soon explain to what these feelings tended, but allow me
now to return to the cottagers, whose story excited in me such
various feelings of indignation, delight, and wonder, but which all
terminated in additional love and reverence for my protectors (for
so I loved, in an innocent, half-painful self-deceit, to call them).”

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

