The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

85 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

warmed by several letters that he received from this lovely girl,
who found means to express her thoughts in the language of her
lover by the aid of an old man, a servant of her father who
understood French. She thanked him in the most ardent terms for
his intended services towards her parent, and at the same time she
gently deplored her own fate.
“I have copies of these letters, for I found means, during my
residence in the hovel, to procure the implements of writing; and
the letters were often in the hands of Felix or Agatha. Before I
depart I will give them to you; they will prove the truth of my tale;
but at present, as the sun is already far declined, I shall only have
time to repeat the substance of them to you.
“Safie related that her mother was a Christian Arab, seized and
made a slave by the Turks; recommended by her beauty, she had
won the heart of the father of Safie, who married her. The young
girl spoke in high and enthusiastic terms of her mother, who, born
in freedom, spurned the bondage to which she was now reduced.
She instructed her daughter in the tenets of her religion and taught
her to aspire to higher powers of intellect and an independence of
spirit forbidden to the female followers of Muhammad. This lady
died, but her lessons were indelibly impressed on the mind of
Safie, who sickened at the prospect of again returning to Asia and
being immured within the walls of a harem, allowed only to
occupy herself with infantile amusements, ill-suited to the temper
of her soul, now accustomed to grand ideas and a noble emulation
for virtue. The prospect of marrying a Christian and remaining in a
country where women were allowed to take a rank in society was
enchanting to her.
“The day for the execution of the Turk was fixed, but on the
night previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was
distant many leagues from Paris. Felix had procured passports in
the name of his father, sister, and himself. He had previously
communicated his plan to the former, who aided the deceit by
quitting his house, under the pretence of a journey and concealed
himself, with his daughter, in an obscure part of Paris.
“Felix conducted the fugitives through France to Lyons and
across Mont Cenis to Leghorn, where the merchant had decided to
wait a favourable opportunity of passing into some part of the
Turkish dominions.
“Safie resolved to remain with her father until the moment of his
departure, before which time the Turk renewed his promise that
she should be united to his deliverer; and Felix remained with them
in expectation of that event; and in the meantime he enjoyed the
society of the Arabian, who exhibited towards him the simplest
and tenderest affection. They conversed with one another through
the means of an interpreter, and sometimes with the interpretation
of looks; and Safie sang to him the divine airs of her native
country.
“The Turk allowed this intimacy to take place and encouraged
the hopes of the youthful lovers, while in his heart he had formed

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

