The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

80 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

Chapter 13
“I now hasten to the more moving part of my story. I shall relate
events that impressed me with feelings which, from what I had
been, have made me what I am.
“Spring advanced rapidly; the weather became fine and the skies
cloudless. It surprised me that what before was desert and gloomy
should now bloom with the most beautiful flowers and verdure.
My senses were gratified and refreshed by a thousand scents of
delight and a thousand sights of beauty.
“It was on one of these days, when my cottagers periodically
rested from labour—the old man played on his guitar, and the
children listened to him—that I observed the countenance of Felix
was melancholy beyond expression; he sighed frequently, and once
his father paused in his music, and I conjectured by his manner that
he inquired the cause of his son’s sorrow. Felix replied in a
cheerful accent, and the old man was recommencing his music
when someone tapped at the door.
“It was a lady on horseback, accompanied by a country-man as a
guide. The lady was dressed in a dark suit and covered with a thick
black veil. Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only
replied by pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of Felix. Her
voice was musical but unlike that of either of my friends. On
hearing this word, Felix came up hastily to the lady, who, when she
saw him, threw up her veil, and I beheld a countenance of angelic
beauty and expression. Her hair of a shining raven black, and
curiously braided; her eyes were dark, but gentle, although
animated; her features of a regular proportion, and her complexion
wondrously fair, each cheek tinged with a lovely pink.
“Felix seemed ravished with delight when he saw her, every trait
of sorrow vanished from his face, and it instantly expressed a
degree of ecstatic joy, of which I could hardly have believed it
capable; his eyes sparkled, as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and
at that moment I thought him as beautiful as the stranger. She
appeared affected by different feelings; wiping a few tears from
her lovely eyes, she held out her hand to Felix, who kissed it
rapturously and called her, as well as I could distinguish, his sweet
Arabian. She did not appear to understand him, but smiled. He
assisted her to dismount, and dismissing her guide, conducted her
into the cottage. Some conversation took place between him and
his father, and the young stranger knelt at the old man’s feet and
would have kissed his hand, but he raised her and embraced her
affectionately.
“I soon perceived that although the stranger uttered articulate
sounds and appeared to have a language of her own, she was
neither understood by nor herself understood the cottagers. They
made many signs which I did not comprehend, but I saw that her
presence diffused gladness through the cottage, dispelling their
sorrow as the sun dissipates the morning mists. Felix seemed

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

