The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

86 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

far other plans. He loathed the idea that his daughter should be
united to a Christian, but he feared the resentment of Felix if he
should appear lukewarm, for he knew that he was still in the power
of his deliverer if he should choose to betray him to the Italian
state which they inhabited. He revolved a thousand plans by which
he should be enabled to prolong the deceit until it might be no
longer necessary, and secretly to take his daughter with him when
he departed. His plans were facilitated by the news which arrived
from Paris.
“The government of France were greatly enraged at the escape
of their victim and spared no pains to detect and punish his
deliverer. The plot of Felix was quickly discovered, and De Lacey
and Agatha were thrown into prison. The news reached Felix and
roused him from his dream of pleasure. His blind and aged father
and his gentle sister lay in a noisome dungeon while he enjoyed the
free air and the society of her whom he loved. This idea was
torture to him. He quickly arranged with the Turk that if the latter
should find a favourable opportunity for escape before Felix could
return to Italy, Safie should remain as a boarder at a convent at
Leghorn; and then, quitting the lovely Arabian, he hastened to
Paris and delivered himself up to the vengeance of the law, hoping
to free De Lacey and Agatha by this proceeding.
“He did not succeed. They remained confined for five months
before the trial took place, the result of which deprived them of
their fortune and condemned them to a perpetual exile from their
native country.
“They found a miserable asylum in the cottage in Germany,
where I discovered them. Felix soon learned that the treacherous
Turk, for whom he and his family endured such unheard-of
oppression, on discovering that his deliverer was thus reduced to
poverty and ruin, became a traitor to good feeling and honour and
had quitted Italy with his daughter, insultingly sending Felix a
pittance of money to aid him, as he said, in some plan of future
maintenance.
“Such were the events that preyed on the heart of Felix and
rendered him, when I first saw him, the most miserable of his
family. He could have endured poverty, and while this distress had
been the meed of his virtue, he gloried in it; but the ingratitude of
the Turk and the loss of his beloved Safie were misfortunes more
bitter and irreparable. The arrival of the Arabian now infused new
life into his soul.
“When the news reached Leghorn that Felix was deprived of his
wealth and rank, the merchant commanded his daughter to think no
more of her lover, but to prepare to return to her native country.
The generous nature of Safie was outraged by this command; she
attempted to expostulate with her father, but he left her angrily,
reiterating his tyrannical mandate.
“A few days after, the Turk entered his daughter’s apartment and
told her hastily that he had reason to believe that his residence at
Leghorn had been divulged and that he should speedily be

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

