The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

82 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

conversed in broken accents, whilst I comprehended and could
imitate almost every word that was spoken.
“While I improved in speech, I also learned the science of letters
as it was taught to the stranger, and this opened before me a wide
field for wonder and delight.
“The book from which Felix instructed Safie was Volney’s
Ruins of Empires. I should not have understood the purport of this
book had not Felix, in reading it, given very minute explanations.
He had chosen this work, he said, because the declamatory style
was framed in imitation of the Eastern authors. Through this work
I obtained a cursory knowledge of history and a view of the several
empires at present existing in the world; it gave me an insight into
the manners, governments, and religions of the different nations of
the earth. I heard of the slothful Asiatics, of the stupendous genius
and mental activity of the Grecians, of the wars and wonderful
virtue of the early Romans—of their subsequent degenerating—of
the decline of that mighty empire, of chivalry, Christianity, and
kings. I heard of the discovery of the American hemisphere and
wept with Safie over the hapless fate of its original inhabitants.
“These wonderful narrations inspired me with strange feelings.
Was man, indeed, at once so powerful, so virtuous and
magnificent, yet so vicious and base? He appeared at one time a
mere scion of the evil principle and at another as all that can be
conceived of noble and godlike. To be a great and virtuous man
appeared the highest honour that can befall a sensitive being; to be
base and vicious, as many on record have been, appeared the
lowest degradation, a condition more abject than that of the blind
mole or harmless worm. For a long time I could not conceive how
one man could go forth to murder his fellow, or even why there
were laws and governments; but when I heard details of vice and
bloodshed, my wonder ceased and I turned away with disgust and
loathing.
“Every conversation of the cottagers now opened new wonders
to me. While I listened to the instructions which Felix bestowed
upon the Arabian, the strange system of human society was
explained to me. I heard of the division of property, of immense
wealth and squalid poverty, of rank, descent, and noble blood.
“The words induced me to turn towards myself. I learned that
the possessions most esteemed by your fellow creatures were high
and unsullied descent united with riches. A man might be
respected with only one of these advantages, but without either he
was considered, except in very rare instances, as a vagabond and a
slave, doomed to waste his powers for the profits of the chosen
few! And what was I? Of my creation and creator I was absolutely
ignorant, but I knew that I possessed no money, no friends, no kind
of property. I was, besides, endued with a figure hideously
deformed and loathsome; I was not even of the same nature as
man. I was more agile than they and could subsist upon coarser
diet; I bore the extremes of heat and cold with less injury to my
frame; my stature far exceeded theirs. When I looked around I saw

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

