The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

93 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

will afford me true pleasure to be in any way serviceable to a
human creature.’
“‘Excellent man! I thank you and accept your generous offer.
You raise me from the dust by this kindness; and I trust that, by
your aid, I shall not be driven from the society and sympathy of
your fellow creatures.’
“‘Heaven forbid! Even if you were really criminal, for that can
only drive you to desperation, and not instigate you to virtue. I also
am unfortunate; I and my family have been condemned, although
innocent; judge, therefore, if I do not feel for your misfortunes.’
“‘How can I thank you, my best and only benefactor? From your
lips first have I heard the voice of kindness directed towards me; I
shall be for ever grateful; and your present humanity assures me of
success with those friends whom I am on the point of meeting.’
“‘May I know the names and residence of those friends?’
“I paused. This, I thought, was the moment of decision, which
was to rob me of or bestow happiness on me for ever. I struggled
vainly for firmness sufficient to answer him, but the effort
destroyed all my remaining strength; I sank on the chair and
sobbed aloud. At that moment I heard the steps of my younger
protectors. I had not a moment to lose, but seizing the hand of the
old man, I cried, ‘Now is the time! Save and protect me! You and
your family are the friends whom I seek. Do not you desert me in
the hour of trial!’
“‘Great God!’ exclaimed the old man. ‘Who are you?’
“At that instant the cottage door was opened, and Felix, Safie,
and Agatha entered. Who can describe their horror and
consternation on beholding me? Agatha fainted, and Safie, unable
to attend to her friend, rushed out of the cottage. Felix darted
forward, and with supernatural force tore me from his father, to
whose knees I clung, in a transport of fury, he dashed me to the
ground and struck me violently with a stick. I could have torn him
limb from limb, as the lion rends the antelope. But my heart sank
within me as with bitter sickness, and I refrained. I saw him on the
point of repeating his blow, when, overcome by pain and anguish, I
quitted the cottage, and in the general tumult escaped unperceived
to my hovel.”

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

