The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

91 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

lovely moon. Yet I did not heed the bleakness of the weather; I was
better fitted by my conformation for the endurance of cold than
heat. But my chief delights were the sight of the flowers, the birds,
and all the gay apparel of summer; when those deserted me, I
turned with more attention towards the cottagers. Their happiness
was not decreased by the absence of summer. They loved and
sympathised with one another; and their joys, depending on each
other, were not interrupted by the casualties that took place around
them. The more I saw of them, the greater became my desire to
claim their protection and kindness; my heart yearned to be known
and loved by these amiable creatures; to see their sweet looks
directed towards me with affection was the utmost limit of my
ambition. I dared not think that they would turn them from me with
disdain and horror. The poor that stopped at their door were never
driven away. I asked, it is true, for greater treasures than a little
food or rest: I required kindness and sympathy; but I did not
believe myself utterly unworthy of it.
“The winter advanced, and an entire revolution of the seasons
had taken place since I awoke into life. My attention at this time
was solely directed towards my plan of introducing myself into the
cottage of my protectors. I revolved many projects, but that on
which I finally fixed was to enter the dwelling when the blind old
man should be alone. I had sagacity enough to discover that the
unnatural hideousness of my person was the chief object of horror
with those who had formerly beheld me. My voice, although harsh,
had nothing terrible in it; I thought, therefore, that if in the absence
of his children I could gain the good will and mediation of the old
De Lacey, I might by his means be tolerated by my younger
protectors.
“One day, when the sun shone on the red leaves that strewed the
ground and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth,
Safie, Agatha, and Felix departed on a long country walk, and the
old man, at his own desire, was left alone in the cottage. When his
children had departed, he took up his guitar and played several
mournful but sweet airs, more sweet and mournful than I had ever
heard him play before. At first his countenance was illuminated
with pleasure, but as he continued, thoughtfulness and sadness
succeeded; at length, laying aside the instrument, he sat absorbed
in reflection.
“My heart beat quick; this was the hour and moment of trial,
which would decide my hopes or realise my fears. The servants
were gone to a neighbouring fair. All was silent in and around the
cottage; it was an excellent opportunity; yet, when I proceeded to
execute my plan, my limbs failed me and I sank to the ground.
Again I rose, and exerting all the firmness of which I was master,
removed the planks which I had placed before my hovel to conceal
my retreat. The fresh air revived me, and with renewed
determination I approached the door of their cottage.
“I knocked. ‘Who is there?’ said the old man. ‘Come in.’
“I entered. ‘Pardon this intrusion,’ said I; ‘I am a traveller in

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

