The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

90 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

recollect these papers. Here they are. Everything is related in them
which bears reference to my accursed origin; the whole detail of
that series of disgusting circumstances which produced it is set in
view; the minutest description of my odious and loathsome person
is given, in language which painted your own horrors and rendered
mine indelible. I sickened as I read. ‘Hateful day when I received
life!’ I exclaimed in agony. ‘Accursed creator! Why did you form a
monster so hideous that even you turned from me in disgust? God,
in pity, made man beautiful and alluring, after his own image; but
my form is a filthy type of yours, more horrid even from the very
resemblance. Satan had his companions, fellow devils, to admire
and encourage him, but I am solitary and abhorred.’
“These were the reflections of my hours of despondency and
solitude; but when I contemplated the virtues of the cottagers, their
amiable and benevolent dispositions, I persuaded myself that when
they should become acquainted with my admiration of their virtues
they would compassionate me and overlook my personal
deformity. Could they turn from their door one, however
monstrous, who solicited their compassion and friendship? I
resolved, at least, not to despair, but in every way to fit myself for
an interview with them which would decide my fate. I postponed
this attempt for some months longer, for the importance attached to
its success inspired me with a dread lest I should fail. Besides, I
found that my understanding improved so much with every day’s
experience that I was unwilling to commence this undertaking until
a few more months should have added to my sagacity.
“Several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage.
The presence of Safie diffused happiness among its inhabitants,
and I also found that a greater degree of plenty reigned there. Felix
and Agatha spent more time in amusement and conversation, and
were assisted in their labours by servants. They did not appear rich,
but they were contented and happy; their feelings were serene and
peaceful, while mine became every day more tumultuous. Increase
of knowledge only discovered to me more clearly what a wretched
outcast I was. I cherished hope, it is true, but it vanished when I
beheld my person reflected in water or my shadow in the
moonshine, even as that frail image and that inconstant shade.
“I endeavoured to crush these fears and to fortify myself for the
trial which in a few months I resolved to undergo; and sometimes I
allowed my thoughts, unchecked by reason, to ramble in the fields
of Paradise, and dared to fancy amiable and lovely creatures
sympathising with my feelings and cheering my gloom; their
angelic countenances breathed smiles of consolation. But it was all
a dream; no Eve soothed my sorrows nor shared my thoughts; I
was alone. I remembered Adam’s supplication to his Creator. But
where was mine? He had abandoned me, and in the bitterness of
my heart I cursed him.
“Autumn passed thus. I saw, with surprise and grief, the leaves
decay and fall, and nature again assume the barren and bleak
appearance it had worn when I first beheld the woods and the

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

