The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

92 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

want of a little rest; you would greatly oblige me if you would
allow me to remain a few minutes before the fire.’
“‘Enter,’ said De Lacey, ‘and I will try in what manner I can to
relieve your wants; but, unfortunately, my children are from home,
and as I am blind, I am afraid I shall find it difficult to procure
food for you.’
“‘Do not trouble yourself, my kind host; I have food; it is
warmth and rest only that I need.’
“I sat down, and a silence ensued. I knew that every minute was
precious to me, yet I remained irresolute in what manner to
commence the interview, when the old man addressed me.
‘By your language, stranger, I suppose you are my countryman;
are you French?’
“‘No; but I was educated by a French family and understand that
language only. I am now going to claim the protection of some
friends, whom I sincerely love, and of whose favour I have some
hopes.’
“‘Are they Germans?’
“‘No, they are French. But let us change the subject. I am an
unfortunate and deserted creature, I look around and I have no
relation or friend upon earth. These amiable people to whom I go
have never seen me and know little of me. I am full of fears, for if I
fail there, I am an outcast in the world for ever.’
“‘Do not despair. To be friendless is indeed to be unfortunate,
but the hearts of men, when unprejudiced by any obvious selfinterest, are full of brotherly love and charity. Rely, therefore, on
your hopes; and if these friends are good and amiable, do not
despair.’
“‘They are kind—they are the most excellent creatures in the
world; but, unfortunately, they are prejudiced against me. I have
good dispositions; my life has been hitherto harmless and in some
degree beneficial; but a fatal prejudice clouds their eyes, and where
they ought to see a feeling and kind friend, they behold only a
detestable monster.’
“‘That is indeed unfortunate; but if you are really blameless,
cannot you undeceive them?’
“‘I am about to undertake that task; and it is on that account that
I feel so many overwhelming terrors. I tenderly love these friends;
I have, unknown to them, been for many months in the habits of
daily kindness towards them; but they believe that I wish to injure
them, and it is that prejudice which I wish to overcome.’
“‘Where do these friends reside?’
“‘Near this spot.’
“The old man paused and then continued, ‘If you will
unreservedly confide to me the particulars of your tale, I perhaps
may be of use in undeceiving them. I am blind and cannot judge of
your countenance, but there is something in your words which
persuades me that you are sincere. I am poor and an exile, but it

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

