The Project Gutenberg eBook of Frankenstein, by Mary Wollstonecraft ...

95 of 163

https://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/84/pg84-images.html

and the enraged Felix tearing me from his father’s feet. I awoke
exhausted, and finding that it was already night, I crept forth from
my hiding-place, and went in search of food.
“When my hunger was appeased, I directed my steps towards
the well-known path that conducted to the cottage. All there was at
peace. I crept into my hovel and remained in silent expectation of
the accustomed hour when the family arose. That hour passed, the
sun mounted high in the heavens, but the cottagers did not appear. I
trembled violently, apprehending some dreadful misfortune. The
inside of the cottage was dark, and I heard no motion; I cannot
describe the agony of this suspense.
“Presently two countrymen passed by, but pausing near the
cottage, they entered into conversation, using violent
gesticulations; but I did not understand what they said, as they
spoke the language of the country, which differed from that of my
protectors. Soon after, however, Felix approached with another
man; I was surprised, as I knew that he had not quitted the cottage
that morning, and waited anxiously to discover from his discourse
the meaning of these unusual appearances.
“‘Do you consider,’ said his companion to him, ‘that you will be
obliged to pay three months’ rent and to lose the produce of your
garden? I do not wish to take any unfair advantage, and I beg
therefore that you will take some days to consider of your
determination.’
“‘It is utterly useless,’ replied Felix; ‘we can never again inhabit
your cottage. The life of my father is in the greatest danger, owing
to the dreadful circumstance that I have related. My wife and my
sister will never recover from their horror. I entreat you not to
reason with me any more. Take possession of your tenement and
let me fly from this place.’
“Felix trembled violently as he said this. He and his companion
entered the cottage, in which they remained for a few minutes, and
then departed. I never saw any of the family of De Lacey more.
“I continued for the remainder of the day in my hovel in a state
of utter and stupid despair. My protectors had departed and had
broken the only link that held me to the world. For the first time
the feelings of revenge and hatred filled my bosom, and I did not
strive to control them, but allowing myself to be borne away by the
stream, I bent my mind towards injury and death. When I thought
of my friends, of the mild voice of De Lacey, the gentle eyes of
Agatha, and the exquisite beauty of the Arabian, these thoughts
vanished and a gush of tears somewhat soothed me. But again
when I reflected that they had spurned and deserted me, anger
returned, a rage of anger, and unable to injure anything human, I
turned my fury towards inanimate objects. As night advanced, I
placed a variety of combustibles around the cottage, and after
having destroyed every vestige of cultivation in the garden, I
waited with forced impatience until the moon had sunk to
commence my operations.

4/25/2024, 4:54 PM

